The Chronicle Showbiz Reporter
WITH a day left before entries for the first phase of the 2019 PPC Imaginarium Awards close, event organisers have called on creatives to quickly register. The competition that was launched in Zimbabwe last year by renowned cement company, PPC Ltd, gives emerging creatives (artists, designers and architecture students) the chance to showcase their talent and creative thinking across the competition’s six categories: Film, Fashion, Jewellery, Sculpture, Architecture and Industrial Design. Run in Zimbabwe and South Africa (where it is now in its fifth year), PPC said the competition has seen many entrants and finalists go on to become recognised in the art and business community. “The competition challenges artists and creatives to test their skills and produce innovative works using Portland cement-based concrete. It focuses on the use of the concrete medium as an art form. “The medium of concrete presents an exciting new challenge for artists within Zimbabwe, a country well-known for its soapstone sculptures,” PPC said in a statement. To enter the competition that is open to creatives living in Zimbabwe – including resident holders and foreign students with study permits, entrants must not be established professionally in their respective industries. Entrants also stand to win their share of publicity, mentorship opportunities and substantial cash prizes. “Entry registrations must be submitted online via www.ppcimaginarium.co.za <http://www.ppcimaginarium.co.za>,” PPC said. As part of the preparation process for the competition, Zimbabwean entrants will have the opportunity to attend a series of free workshops after completing the entry registration process. The workshops will take place between 15-25 January, 2019 in Harare, Bulawayo and Mutare. “These intensive workshops are focused on exploring the technical elements of working with concrete. Participants will be taught skills such as creating moulds and how to apply different techniques. “At the end of the workshop, participants will be given PPC cement and Chryso products to assist them with completing their physical submissions.” Once the physical submissions have been judged, the winning entries for each category will be announced at a gala event at the National Gallery of Zimbabwe in Harare, on May 30, 2019. The ongoing cooperation between PPC Ltd and the National Gallery of Zimbabwe was recognised at the 2018 Business and Arts South Africa Awards with a nomination for the Beyond Borders Partnership Award.