The Chronicle Tonderai Zvimba, Showbiz Reporter
THE premiere of the much anticipated theatrical play, Everybody’s Talking, at the Bulawayo Theatre recently unearthed a lot of hidden acting talent. The highly opinionated storyline by Mandy Mashingaidze was told vividly through the use of great music. It was refreshing to see personalities such as Arthur Evans and up-and-coming rapper MUSE, Vlogger Zoe Mkhwananzi, singer Qeqeshiwe Mntambo and accountant Nyaradzai Nyika take to the stage and show their artistic talent. Evans and actress Nonkanyiso Mabaleka played the couple Robert and Ava Philani and they did not disappoint as they put on a spectacular show. Most people know Evans as a TV personality through his news reading on ZBCtv and his series The Arthur C Evans Show, but his on stage prowess was not known. This theatrical play thereby showed a different side of him as not many knew Evans could act, let alone be able to hold a leading role in a theatrical play. In an interview, Evans said he was not new to theatre productions as he featured in a 2014 Beauty and the Beast production. “The last time I was on stage, I was performing in the play Beauty and the Beast at the Bulawayo Theatre some four years ago. So when the guys approached me to play Robert, I accepted and worked hard to adapt to the character. “It had its highs and lows, but I worked hard to put my best performance on stage,” said Evans. He said theatre was something close to his heart. “Theatre is something that is close to my heart because during my childhood, I’d attend theatre shows. I wanted to be more involved but time constraints took over,” said Evans. He said he learnt a lot from the character Robert since he was a married man. “Communication is very important in a relationship. This is what I learnt from my character. I also realised that too many voices from outside your marriage can destroy it,” said Evans. Working on assumptions, the play’s storyline looks at how a seemingly happy marriage between Ava and Robert was destroyed by rumours that Robert was involved in an illicit relationship with his secretary, Grace, played by Amanda Huni. These accusations were made by Ava’s younger sister Bronwyn played by Nyaradzai Nyika.