The Chronicle Stanford Chiwanga in Surat, India
A DELEGATION of over 20 Indian investors is set to jet into Zimbabwe early next year to explore investment opportunities in all sectors of the economy with special focus on partnerships that enhance bilateral economic and trade ties between Zimbabwe and India. This was revealed on Wednesday by Mr Satish Gandhi, the leader of the delegation that is expected in the country by March 2019. Mr Gandhi said the prospective investors were interested in the construction, infrastructure development, pharmaceuticals, textile, tourism, mining, retail and other sectors that the Government of Zimbabwe will avail to them. “Maybe you think I am saying this because I know (Raji) Modi or because you think I think that is what you would like to hear. That is not it. We are very serious, we are ready and we want to invest in Zimbabwe,” said Mr Gandhi. “We could have come this year but we cannot because we will be in the festive period and I have to go back to Australia, where I stay. We do not want distractions, so we will be in Zimbabwe early next year, probably February or March.” He added that most of the investors have indicated that they want to set up manufacturing plants in Zimbabwe that would supply products to the rest of Africa. “I have been following developments in Zimbabwe and I know that the country prefers investors who will set up factories there. Modi and I have been stressing that point to all the business people interested in investing in Zimbabwe and they are willing to do that,” said Mr Gandhi. “But they have indicated that they want to see if there is a market for their products. That is the one of the reasons for the trip to Zimbabwe. But not all will manufacture, some want to import products to Zimbabwe and others want to export to Zimbabwe. We want to do business with Zimbabwe. I think the first delegation we will bring will be of 20 plus people.” He said some of the investors who will visit have an interest in exploring partnerships with local businesses as a way of ensuring that they also thrive. The business people, who will be part of the delegation, will be from the Indian cities of Navsari and Surat. “I am the one who made it possible for the Deputy Minister (Raj Modi) to meet business people in Surat and Navsari. I organised all those meetings and from the huge turnout you can tell yourself business people here are more than willing to be part of the Zimbabwean economic turnaround story,” said Mr Gandhi. “The elevation of Modi to the position of Deputy Minister has excited the whole of India but especially the people of Gujarat, where he was born and raised. Being appointed Deputy Minister has made India realise that Zimbabwe is not a racist country. Of course, I know it is a very racial tolerant and peaceful country because I have been there a number of times but most people did not know that until now.”