The Chronicle EDITOR: Wherever you reside on the globe, there is a strong possibility you might either hear or feel an angry rumbling of of the planet earth today. When this development occurs, please do not turn on the news and look to a meteorologist for an explanation, for this experience will have absolutely nothing to do with weather patterns. We are on the verge of receiving a harsh reminder from our Native American sisters and brothers ancestral spirits, urging Mother Africa’s most conscientious daughters and sons, to aggressively spread the word amongst our ranks that they are not extinct like dinosaurs or volcanoes. For each and every one of us who embrace the point of view that the holiday thanksgiving, is simply a time to gather with family and loved ones and be grateful, therefore function from the understanding that remembering how our Native Americans were slaughtered outright by a group of savages who they welcomed with open arms spoils the very essence of this occasion, a warning about the danger of counting your blessings at the expense of ignoring shameful and unjustifiable atrocities that have stained the annals of history couldn’t come at a better time. Our extended African family commonly referred to as African Americans due to a cultural, historical and geographical divide, should turn the pages of history back seven years ago,and remember that the original day to unveil the monument to Dr King on the mall in Washington DC, was postponed due to inclement weather conditions in connection to Hurricane Irene. We remember listening to many who shared the belief that those heavy drops of rain and wind in the nation’s capital whose political military and economic might and power is abused on a daily basis, were sent a spiritual message from the restless fighting spirit of Dr King, that those who took his life should not be allowed to celebrate him either in the form of a national holiday by jackleg preachers who would not have invited him to preach in their churches or the very government whose intelligence agencies and political braintrust considered him the most dangerous individual who resided within their borders. As we are commemorating the 50th anniversary of the cowardly assassination of Dr King by the FBI-CIA, it must be noted that the same grouping and demographic of those of us commonly referred to as African Americans, who feel a sense of obligation to visit both Dr. King’s memorial or the National Museum of African American History and Culture but will not join or support any genuine efforts to use the 50th anniversary to shame and expose the genocidal aspect of US imperialist culture, are the same ones who consider using Thanksgiving to shame the war criminals of yesterday an unwelcomed disturbance preventing them from digesting their turkey dinner in peace. Because those who remain committed to revolutionary principles and values, clearly understand that the decolonisation process is no place for the weak and weary, we accept all wars produce countless casualties. It is by design that Thanksgiving does not focus on regret or being humbled that you have been provided the opportunity to correct mistakes. If this aspect of the human make-up was part of thanksgiving, perhaps the Congressional Black Caucus and former US Presidents George W Bush and Barack Obama, would publicly acknowledge that supporting sanctions and regime change on the government and people of Zimbabwe, was not only a tragic error but a working tribute to the pilgrims who anhiliated Native Americans after being recipients of their compassion and good will. Speaking of being thankful, humble and grateful, our Zimbabwean sisters and brothers are one year removed from a political dispensation, that saw the only President they had ever known Robert Gabriel Mugabe resign from office. Many of the Zimbabweans who danced in the streets of Harare, with demonstration signs paid for by George Soros, Madeline Albright or Carl Gershman, are the exact same parade of neo colonialists shouting that President Mnangagwa is worse than former President Mugabe ever was. On the outside looking in, may Zimbabwe in particular and Africa in general thank that old man for the role he played in making Zimbabwe a political, military, educational and agricultural powerhouse, that caused US-EU imperialism many sleepless nights. Whatever mistakes were made along the way, let us be thankful we have the human resources to get better organised and correct them. A very crucial part of the revolutionary process is to bare minimum match and exceed the workload and contributions of those who came before you.
President Mnangagwa has not gotten the praise he deserves for stepping into the shoes of a leader very few are qualified to walk in or attempt to fill. We are thankful for the selflessness and countless drops of sweat and blood shed by our most dedicated frontline fighters and in their names and the principles they upheld and defended we fight on. Obi Egbuna Jr, Correspondent – Obi Egbuna Jr is the US correspondent to the Herald and external relations officer of Zimbabwe Cuba Friendship Association (ZICUFA) obiegbuna15@gmail.com