UNWTO Regional Vice President Africa Mr Cuthbert Ncube hands over a donation of sanitary pads to the Southern Region Women’s Football Fixtures Secretary Sibekiwe Ndlovu (right) while Thembalethu Foundation Trust representative Talent Ncube (second from right) and other officialls look on in Bulawayo yesterday Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Premiership side Hwange have braced up for a tough Southern Region Division One Soccer League encounter against armyside, Indlovu Iyanyathela, in Bulawayo this afternoon. Top of the table coalminers who have amassed 21 points enjoy a two-point lead over Mosi Rovers are wary of Indlovu Iyanyathela whom they have described as “unpredictable”. Coming from a 2-0 home win against CIWU, Hwange coach Nation Dube will be banking on his experienced squad to lead them in their search for victory. “Every game has its challenges and what is important is to have a positive approach. They are a tricky side, that deserves respect like all the teams because they have proved to be party spoilers for many. We just have to be compact and be positive in our approach and try to get a positive result. Remember, every game to us is more of a cup final,” Dube said. The coalminers have a host of experienced players who include former national team defenders Obert Moyo and Felix Chindungwe as well as seasoned striker Gilbert Zulu capable of leading them against a youthful Indlovu Iyanyathela. Second placed Mosi Rovers as well as Tsholotsho who are tied on 19 points after 10 games will be hoping that Indlovu Iyanyathela springs a shocker and beats Hwange while they win their respective games to go level with the coalminers. Mosi Rovers are away to NRZ Leopards in Dete while Tsholotsho take on Moto Moto in Hwange tomorrow. Rahman Gumbo-coached Makomo who were inactive last weekend following cancellation of their game against Casmyn entertain newboys Toronto who are seeking their first win of the season in Hwange this afternoon. Fixtures Today: NRZ Leopards v Mosi Rovers (Dete), ZRP Bulawayo v Talen Vision (Raylton), Indlovu Iyanyathela v Hwange (Mzilikazi Barracks, 12PM), CIWU v Zim Leopards (Crescent, 12PM), Mainline v Casmyn (Plumtree), Makomo v Toronto (Mpumalanga), Bosso 90 v ZPC Hwange (Luveve) Tomorrow: Moto Moto v Tsholotsho (Mpumalanga) — @ZililoR