Minister Mike Bimha Freedom Mupanedemo, Midlands Bureau Government is finalising the formulation of a new Zimbabwe National Industrialisation Policy 2018-2022 centred on developing and facilitating industrial linkages across all sectors of the economy. Speaking during a tour of Sable Chemical Industries by President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Wednesday, Industry and Commerce Minister Mike Bimha said the company was one of the strategic companies to the success of the country’s industrialisation agenda. “The Zimbabwe National Industrialisation Policy 2018 -2022 is centred on development and facilitation of industrial linkages across key sectors of the economy namely agriculture, mining manufacturing and services,’ he said. “Sable Chemical Industries is thus one company with a unique product that is vital to both the agricultural and mining sectors.” Minister Bimha said the company was important in the country’s industrialisation matrix as it cuts across all sectors of the economy. He said the development of industries in the country was centred on strategically positioned companies like Sable Chemical Industries. “This company makes extensive use of both road and rail transport, insurance and other services,” said Minister Bimha. ‘ It thus cuts across the whole spectrum of the economic sectors as envisioned in our industrialisation policy. “It is a strategic company that is vital to the success of the country’s industrial and agrarian reform agenda.” Minister Bimha said his Ministry was prioritising the revival of companies like Sable Chemical Industries and this explained why the President, who was accompanied by Vice President Constantino Chiwenga, toured the company. “As such, my ministry is dedicated to see an improvement in the capacity utilisation at Sable Chemical Industries,” he said. Minister Bimha said the move will lead to employment creation, improved import substitution and the creation of new synergies with other firms across industries. “This visit, Cde President, has, therefore, provided a window for you into the opportunities and challenges of this company and its importance to the country’s industrialisation agenda.”