Dr Sibusiso Moyo Harare Bureau RELATIONS between Zimbabwe and the United States of America have significantly improved following the coming in of the new dispensation under President Mnangagwa. Speaking to journalists after meeting US assistant secretary for State responsible for Southern Africa Mr Matthew Harrington at his Munhumutapa Offices yesterday, Foreign Affairs Minister Dr Sibusiso Moyo said: “We have held very good discussions bordering on our relations with the US and that there is clear manifestation of improved relations between Zimbabwe and the United States.” In his remarks Mr Harrington said Zimbabwe had had opportunity to do things differently following Operation Restore Legacy launched last November. “I think there is a rare opportunity for Zimbabwe to set itself on a different path. I am here to learn developments since the events of November and to explore whether there are opportunities to strengthen our relationship so the Minister and myself had a good discussion. I have enjoyed my discussion during the last couple of days. “There are different groups that have come to visit because I think there is no substitute for hearing from experts on the ground and that is why I am here. I have been in my role since January. I am responsible for Southern Africa affairs and I wanted my first trip to include this stop in Harare.” After the meeting, Dr Moyo also received a special envoy from Turkey Dr Hasan Yavuz, who wanted to deliver a special message to President Mnanagwa on behalf of his President Recep Tayyip Erdogan Addressing journalists after the meeting Dr Moyo, Turkish ambassador to Zimbabwe Hakan Kivanc said: “We have hand delivered the message of our President to the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe His Excellency Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa, which include the cooperation in the field of education starting from kindergarten to university. “The school will be here. It will be established here and run by Turkish and Zimbabwean administrators. It is one of our duties to assist our friendly countries. Ambassador Kivanc said Zimbabwe-Turkish relations were set to flourish in the near future. He said trade was also going to increase between the two countries and that Turkish companies were ready to venture into various infrastructural development projects in areas such as road construction, dams, airports, railway among others. “We are so happy really to be here and we are happy to increase our relationship in all field without any condition,” he said.