 Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter ALL is set for the inaugural Old Mutual Nkulumane Half Marathon which is on tomorrow. The event was previously a fun run incorporating only the 5km and 10km road races but the inclusion of the half marathon is aimed at attracting more professional runners. Registration fee is $5 for the three races and it closes today. Entry forms are available at Cabs Centre and Old Mutual offices in the city centre as well as at Nkulumane Complex. “Preparations have gone well and as we have said before, the event this year will be big. We have had athletes from across the country enquiring about the event so we expect top athletes from all over said the Bulawayo Athletics Board chairperson Manuel Mpofu. He said the meet has remained a favourite of the athletes due to the hilly nature of the route that has several steep rises making it a good terrain for athletes. Sponsors, Old Mutual have set aside $10 300 for this year’s rebranded Nkulumane Half Marathon. Winners of the 21km race for both men and women will walk away $700 richer while runners-up and third-placed athletes will get $500 and $300 respectively. The winner in the wheelchair category will get $500, while second and third-placed athletes will get $300 and $200. In the 10km race, the winners will get $200 for the seniors and $100 for juniors. Independent runner Canicious Nyamutsa won the men’s 10km run last year, beating a host of experienced runners that included Kadoma-based Jacob Mugomeri of Zimpost, who came second and Misheck Sithole who was third. In the women’s category, Bertha Chikanga romped to victory, with Rudo Mhondero finishing second and Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services (ZPCS) runner Patience Garauzive beating defending champion Olivia Chitate of ZRP for third place. Old Mutual, who support big races in South Africa such as the Two Oceans Marathon and the Comrades, also bankroll the Vumba Half Marathon, Harare Marathon, Chitungwiza 10km Fun Run and the Westgate Half Marathon.