President Mnangagwa and Simon Khaya Moyo Leonard Ncube in Hwange PEOPLE from Hwange District are excited about the Hwange Power Station expansion project which they say is a game changer in the development of the district. President Emmerson Mnangagwa  on Wednesday presided over the groundbreaking ceremony at the expansion site which will see the giant project kicking off. In his address, President Mnangagwa said the project which will add 600MW to the national grid, will provide about 3 000 jobs to locals. Speaking in separate interviews, some of the locals commended the President for his commitment to transforming lives of communities. They appealed to companies that  will be involved in the project to take  heed of the President’s call to give   priority to locals in terms of employment opportunities. Zanu-PF Matabeleland North provincial chairman Cde Richard Moyo said Hwange and the province as whole will not be the same again. “This is a huge project which the President has just commissioned. The power station expansion will employ 3 000 people and you heard his Excellency saying the company should employ locals, we are excited about that,” said Cde Moyo. He said the province has many other projects that the President has reignited which will lead to better fortunes. “We have the Batoka Gorge Hydro-Power project, Gwayi-Shangani Dam, Methane Gas, Kamativi resuscitation as well as the Bulawayo-Nkayi road rehabilitation among other projects being implemented or soon to be implemented. All of these projects will benefit the province through job creation and we are happy that our youths will now get jobs,” he said. Headman Dumisani Mpala of Lupote Ward 16 under Chief Nelukoba in the same district said there should be a platform where local leadership will be allowed to second their subjects for employment. “As rural community leadership around Hwange we welcome this project 100 percent as it will benefit us and our people. What we ask for now is for all leaders around to be accorded the opportunity to participate in the employment process by at least seconding our people. “We wish leaders could sit down with companies involved so that they employ locals and if say 1 000 workers are wanted at any time, village heads, chiefs and even councillors should be  allowed to provide a list of the unemployed in their areas,” said Headman Mpala. He said once operationalised, the power station expansion will enhance the rural electrification programme. Headman Mpala said it was sad that Hwange district which has the biggest power station in the country, has its rural electrification programme confined to schools and a few institutions with members of the community not benefiting. A resident in Hwange town Mr Amas Gutu said the project will impact positively on the welfare of youths who are likely to be employed. “This is a very good project especially for us youths in Matabeleland North because those who have no jobs will soon be employed,” he said. Mrs Faith Mudenda implored companies that will be involved in the big project to consider engaging women as well. Syno Hydro is the contractor of the project which has received $200 million to   kick-start the project from China Exim  Bank which is funding the $1,5 billion project.—@ncubeleon