 Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls VICTORIA Falls residents are cashing in on high demand for braai and “gango” as the few regular tshisa nyama spots are fully subscribed due to a large influx of people here for the Econet Victoria Falls Marathon. The annual marathon takes place tomorrow but the resort town has been a hive of activity in the past few days when the runners and supporters started arriving. Leisure and tshisa nyama spots such as Ko Panashe, Grid Bar and Army Chalets have been overwhelmed resulting in visitors opting for temporary braai stands from around town. Industrious residents were quick to notice a business opportunity and are renting out their braai stands for as much as $20 per night. A random check by Chronicle Showbiz showed that the resort town is in a festive mood during the night as the marathon fever rises. Eateries are also a hive of activity forcing an adjustment on dishes to cater for scores of joy seekers. Hotels and lodges are also fully booked for the period. Zimbabweans coming for the marathon are also among the regular clients, alongside some foreign tourists. A tourism executive Clement Mukwasi who is also Sport and Recreation Commission Commissioner said the mood in the resort  town shows the interface between tourism and sport. “We’ve noticed a high number of domestic tourists who are coming in as athletes. Most locals are not coming to compete, but to run to keep fit and they’re coming in big numbers with their supporters. Such people did not pre-book and are the ones outsourcing a lot of things. “There’s an increase in bookings for tour activities but what’s interesting is that braai stands have run out as many domestic tourists are coming through with the tshisa nyama kind of fun. The few places that offer this service are fully subscribed,” said Mukwasi. He said because of limited capacity, residents have turned their backyards into mini tshisa nyama zones while some are renting out their braai stands. Comfort Pub and Grill proprietor Nic Mukarati said his place was getting a lot of inquiries from revellers wanting a place to hang out for braai and drinks but were leaving disappointed as he is closed for renovations. Zambezi House general manager Carl Joshua Ncube said the popular chef’s table will be a hit with different kinds of dishes including braai. He said while Victoria Falls has of late woken up in terms of tourism, the marathon had brought a new lease of life. “We are on the river bank and we’ll be giving visitors a chilled experience at the chef’s table where people will eat and drink till they drop for only $50,” he said. — @ncubeleon