 Michael Magoronga, Midlands Correspondent FIVE members of a machete-wielding gang that pounced on a shebeen in Mbizo suburb in Kwekwe and randomly attacked imbibers, killing two and injuring three have appeared in court facing murder and attempted murder charges. Lovemore Ganyani (30), Njabulo Ganyani (24), Envious Mpofu (19), Arnold Dube (18) and Musekiwa Mutambamvura (38), were not asked to plead when they appeared before Mr Lavroe Philemon. They were remanded in custody to June 27 and advised to apply for bail at the High Court. Misheck Ganyani, Lyton Mpofu, Shepherd Mpofu, Shepherd Msasa, Sufficient Sibanda, Trust Ganyani and Carlos NKPK and two unnamed men who are other members of the gang, are still at large. In opposing bail, the State led by Ms Michelle Daraja argued that the accused were likely to interfere with witnesses as the case was still under investigation. “The other accused persons are still at large and if released, the accused might team up with their colleagues to commit other offences,” said Ms Daraja. It is the State’s case that on June 7, 2018, the 14 accused connived and went to house number 16062 Mbizo 15 armed with machetes, logs, axes and knives. They found Mr Lloyd Chipindu, Mr Almighty Chuma, Mr Tafadzwa Mpofu, Mr Justice Chibharo and Mr Norest Zimano seated at a fire place while drinking beer. The gang started assaulting them randomly with logs, machetes and axes and knives. Mr Chipindu, who rents the house, fled into the house but was caught in the corridor and was stabbed once on the right side of the waist. The accused went on to assault Mr Chibharo, Mr Zimano, Mr Chuma and Mr Mpofu. They thereafter stabbed Mr Chuma and Mr Mpofu with knives several times resulting in Mr Chuma dying on the spot. Mr Mpofu died upon admission at Kwekwe District Hospital. Mr Chibharo, Chipindu and Mr Zimano were ferried to Kwekwe District Hospital where they were treated and discharged. Mr Artwell Chinamatira of Mavhiringidze and Mashanyare Legal Practitioners represented the accused.