Joseph Muchechetere Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Sports and Recreation Commission (SRC) has expressed satisfaction with the increase in National Sports Associations (NSAs) that are now compliant with the SRC Act following a meeting with NSA leaders at the weekend. A total of 33 NSA leaders attended the meeting where they were informed that 28 NSAs were fully compliant and 20 partially compliant, while 11 remained totally non-compliant. The SRC says it will name the non-compliant NSA after consultations with them. The weekend indaba was mainly over the registration and compliance status of NSAs, Sport and Recreation Colours Control Policy and the role of corporate governance in sport organisations. SRC acting director-general Joseph Muchechetere gave an overview of the governance and compliance status of the NSAs. “This is an improvement and we hope those who are partially compliant will submit their statutory returns in the near future so that we have everyone being fully compliant. On the overall, we are satisfied that our call to have the NSAs being compliant with the SRC Act and the Statutory Instrument is bearing fruit,” said Muchechetere. “As the regulator of the sports and recreation sector, we will continue to engage those NSAs which are either partially compliant or not compliant so that they all become compliant with the laws of the land. The engagement process will be done on one-on-one meetings,” he said. The NSAs were also urged to pay the annual levy of $4 per athlete per year. New NSAs that recently registered with the SRC, the Dodgeball Association of Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe Schools Coaches’ Association and Zimbabwe Wood Ball Federation were also formally welcomed at the meeting. A National Sport and Recreation Policy presentation was made by the SRC business development and marketing director Daniel Kuwengwa and although its scope was well received, it was resolved that the policy be circulated to NSAs for more input. “The SRC will also come up with a road map for the National Sport and Recreation Strategy, which was going to be shared with the NSAs once it has been ratified by the board.The National Sport and Recreation Strategy seeks to operationalise the National Sport and Recreation Policy, which was put together in 2016 by the government and the SRC was tasked to develop it. SRC chairman Edward Siwela also presented on corporate governance in which he touched on the need for NSAs to adhere to tenets of good corporate governance, develop and entrench entrepreneurial skills, which will help them effectively and efficiently run their associations.