Sithethelelwe ‘Kwinji 15’ Sibanda Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau AFTER taking a giant step towards their qualification for the Africa Women Cup of Nations with an away win in Lusaka on Wednesday, the Mighty Warriors coach Sithethelelwe “Kwinji 15” Sibanda has challenged her charges to remain focused when they host Zambia at Rufaro tomorrow in the second leg of the final qualifying round. The winner of the two-legged tie joins seven other countries for the continental football showpiece to be hosted by Ghana from November 17 to December 1. A goal by Rutendo Makore in the first half on Wednesday ensured Zimbabwe are in good position when they clash with their rivals. But Sibanda urged her side to shift their focus from what transpired in Lusaka and put up a good fight tomorrow to secure their place in Ghana. “Yes we won 1-0 but we want to put that game behind us and look at Sunday’s game as a new game. We don’t want keep thinking about what happened in Zambia as it will just disturb us. “So we are just going to look at that as a new game where we need to get the results that will get us through. Obviously every coach, every team, player, their intentions at the end of the day is to win…They want it, we want it also,” said Sibanda. The team which returned home on Thursday resumed training yesterday at ZIFA Village with Sibanda indicating they are likely to have some changes to the starting 11. “Obviously we just want to address our weaknesses that we encountered in Zambia and try to rehearse on that, try to rehearse on the shape of the team on Sunday. “The difference between the two matches is two days. We might have one or two changes just to bring in a new fresh pair of legs, just to bring in some energy into the game and possibly try to be more offensive. Playing at home we want to put pressure on them. “Our defensive tactical organisation was good…but on the offensive we were also playing their type of play, we reacted to their type of play instead of sticking to our play. “So we just want to build confidence in the girls to pass the ball, that’s what we are good at not the long balls,” Sibanda said. The Zambians arrived in the country on Thursday and had their first training session yesterday morning at Hellenic Sports Club. Their coach Bruce Mwape made it clear the hosts should expect a tough encounter as Zambia seeks to turn the tables on their opponents. “We actually lost in Zambia by 1-0, which was not the true reflection of how we played that game. But the last 90 minutes, which we have come here for, which is Sunday’s game the bottom line is we want just to qualify. “I think the game is still on. They scored in the 90 minutes away, we can also score in the other 90 minutes, which is Sunday’s game,” said Mwape. Mwape said their setback in the first leg was the failure to convert the chances that came their way and are working on that. However, they have another challenge with their top striker Barbra Banda racing against time to recover from an ankle injury suffered during Wednesday’s game. “Again the first 20 minutes of the gam we also lost the other striker, one of our dependable players. She actually sustained an injury, which is an ankle injury. She is still not okay and I think if she doesn’t recover by tomorrow then we will be able to replace here “She is actually a very good player and like I said she is one of our dependable players. But unfortunately she got injured within the course of the game, 20minutes into the game,” said Mwape. Teams Zimbabwe Goalkeepers: Chido Dzingirai, Shebba Rauli. Defenders: Nobuhle Majika, Lynett Mutukuto, Sheila Makoto, Sithembile Nyoni, Nobukhosi Ncube. Midfielders: Talent Mandaza (captain), Emmaculate Msipa, Daisy Kaitano, Felistas Muzongondi, Mavis Chirandu, Marjory Nyaumwe. Strikers: Rutendo Makore, Erina Jeke, Berita Kabwe, Maud Mafuruse, Tafadzwa Tsunguro. Zambia Theresa Chewe, Jackline Nkole, Misozi Zulu, Rhoda Chileshe, Lwendo Chisamu, Prisca Chilufya, Anita Mulenga, Mary Mwakapila, Maleta Muwindwa, Chanda Hellen Ng’andwe, Margret Belemu, Barbra Banda, Hazel Nali, Joana Benai, Mweemba Lushomo, Mary Mambwe, Rachel Kundananji, Martha Tembo.