 Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter ASPIRING candidates from different political parties have started submitting nomination papers after the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) opened the process in preparation for the Nomination Court. The Nomination Court will sit on Thursday next week to receive names of aspiring candidates ahead of the general elections slated for July 30. Zec elections officer for Bulawayo province Mr Innocent Ncube yesterday said aspiring candidates are required to submit a copy of the national identity card, birth certificate, three passport size photos and a marriage certificate where necessary. Each candidate will be expected to complete a form, which Zec has already provided to political parties. “We opened the process on Monday and we’ve started receiving nomination papers from aspiring candidates ahead of the sitting of the Nomination Court next week. We’ve already given the forms to different political parties to distribute to the candidates. “Independent candidates will personally collect the forms from the Zec offices,” said Mr Ncube. He said the process is meant to verify aspiring candidates’ details and compliance with electoral provisions. “Once we’ve checked the papers and seen that everything is in order, we file them. When the Nomination Court sits, Zec will announce names of those who would have successfully submitted their nomination forms,” said Mr Ncube. He said that aspiring candidates who would have failed to submit their papers before Thursday next week will still do so on the day Nomination Court sits. Mr Ncube advised aspiring candidates to bring their forms and all the required paperwork before the Nomination Court sits next week so that if they are any corrections, they have time to make the required adjustments. He said candidates aspiring to be presidents will be required to pay $1 000 while those aspiring for the National Assembly will part with $50. Local authorities aspiring candidates will not be paying anything. The six Senatorial candidates for each party pay a combined $100 per province. The same applies to the National Assembly candidates under the proportional representation. Presidential candidates, he added, should be aged 40 and above while MPs and councillors should be at least 21 years old. On Tuesday Zec held a stakeholders’ engagement meeting with political parties and aspiring candidates in Bulawayo to discuss the Nomination Court requirements. @pamelashumba1