Prince Dube Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter PRINCE Dube could don the zebra striped Highlanders’ kit in the last half of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League if his South African Premiership side SuperSport United and Bosso agree on a loan deal. Chronicle Sport can reveal that SuperSport have agreed to loan the talented striker to Highlanders if the Bulawayo giants can pay Dube half his salary and they meet the other half. However, Highlanders’ chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube pleaded ignorance on the offer yesterday. “There is nothing on Prince. He is a SuperSport United player and as a club we do not talk about players from other teams. It would be disrespectful to talk about a player who is contracted to another club. We will be disappointed if any other club talked about a player that belongs to us,” said Dube. The 21-year-old striker joined SuperSport at the start of the 2017/18 South African Premiership season from Highlanders after impressing with his pace and skill in the local Premiership. He had scored six goals for Bosso before his move to the neighbouring country halfway through the Castle Lager Premiership season. Dube, however, struggled to break into the SuperSport squad, playing second fiddle to fellow strikers Jeremy Brockie and Bradley Grobler. Even after the departure of Brockie in January this year, Dube still failed to make the break. Former Zimbabwe international Kaitano Tembo was appointed caretaker coach of SuperSport in March following the resignation of Eric Tinkler; a move many thought would open space for Dube, but he remained on the sidelines. Dube was loaned to Black Leopards where he still failed to get the regular game time and Bosso could be the perfect destination for him to re-launch his career. His arrival could boost the Bosso frontline, which has been firing blanks. Highlanders have averaged a goal a match, with striker Ozias Zibande contributing four goals out of the 17 they have scored in 17 matches. Zibande last scored on May 6 when Bosso lost 1-2 to ZPC Kariba.The other striker Newman Sianchali has two goals to his account and has been guilty of missing sitters on numerous occasions. – @innocentskizoe