Joice Mujuru Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent THE People’s Rainbow Coalition (PRC) led by Dr Joice Mujuru has completed candidates’ selection in five of the country’s 10 provinces with the process expected to be concluded on Friday. PRC is one of the coalitions set to contest in the country’s harmonised elections set for July 30. Responding to questions sent by The Chronicle, PRC spokesperson and the Mrs Lucia Matibenga-led People’s Democratic Party secretary general, Dr Gorden Moyo, said PRC was on course in its election preparations. “PRC is fielding its candidates in all the 210 constituencies, all the 60 Proportional Representation Women’s Quota, all the 60 Senators, all the provincial representatives and all the 1958 wards. So far the candidate selection process has been completed in Bulawayo, Matabeleland North, Harare, Mashonaland Central, Manicaland and Mashonaland West provinces,” said Dr Moyo. He said the coalition would complete its candidate selection on Friday in the remaining provinces. Dr Moyo said the coalition will officially release the list of all its candidates next week. However, a list of its contesting candidates for Bulawayo province has been leaked with some familiar names emerging. Some of the candidates include former MDC-T senator Mr Matson Hlalo who is contesting the Makokoba seat with Mr Bekithemba Ndlovu (Mpopoma-Pelandaba) and Dr Samuel Sipepa Nkomo (Njube-Lobengula) contesting the seats they held before being recalled by the MDC-T in 2015. PRC will be represented by Mr Clayton Jones (Bulawayo South), Mr Nkosilathi Mpofu (Luveve/Gwabalanda), Mr David Moyo (Nkulumane), Mr Mthandazo Maphosa (Entumbane/Emakhandeni) and Ms Esnathi Bulayani (Nketa/Emganwini). Mr Fortune Mlalazi will stand in Magwegwe constituency while Mr George Sifiso Hlongwane will stand in Pumula with Mr John Madawu running in Bulawayo East Constituency. The coalition will have Reverend Frank Mhlanga contesting in Bulawayo South. Dr Moyo said the coalition will next week comment on the political landscape ahead of the elections. “PRC will give its detailed report assessing the political, legal and constitutional landscape around elections early next week,” he said. Dr Moyo said at the moment the party was pre-occupied with candidates’ selection and training of its election agents and ensuring that it fulfils expectations of the Nomination Court. “The PRC chairperson Madam Matibenga has been tasked to take charge of the process of ensuring that President Mujuru is nominated as the PRC Presidential candidate by all provinces as per the requirements of the Electoral Regulations,” he said. @nqotshili