 THE ZIMSEC Examinations are in session having started on Monday 4 June 2018. With all preparations having been made to assure a successful examinations session, the Examiner would like to highlight some vital points which are pertinent for teachers, candidates and parents. A new school curriculum was introduced in 2017 by the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education. The students who were in Form 3 in 2017 are the present Ordinary Level candidates who will be the first class to sit for the examinations based on the new curriculum this November 2018. This means that the current June 2018 examination, is the last examination comprising purely of content from the “old curriculum” and this has led to the higher entries experienced for the subjects offered during this session. As with all examinations, there could be some unscrupulous elements that will try and promote mal-practice, thereby compromising the future of the candidates and as such all stakeholders need to be on high alert to avoid such activities. The Zimbabwe School Examinations Council has put in place security measures to try and curb this mal-practice, tightening the security of question papers in transit and in storage; however, as with every vice which attacks society, it takes the community and all stakeholders to fight examination malpractice. Teachers and their students work very hard in preparation for the examinations and with all honesty and integrity, proudly display their results when all is done. It is with this in mind that this article will highlight some of the malpractices which teachers, candidates and all members of the society should be aware of and raise an instant alarm if detected. Premature access to the question paper/mark schemes/ live examination materials. Smuggling pre-written notes into the examination room — notes on paper, hands or any other object Impersonation — Entering an examination purporting to be the candidate when one is not with the intent of writing the examination on their behalf. Undue assistance/maladministration by the centre Collusion — discussing the questions/giving each other answers during the examination or copying each other’s work Smuggling unauthorised electronic storage gadgets into the examination room e.g. cellphones, swatches Invalid identity document — Every private candidate must enter into the examination after their identification has been verified — Acceptable documents are National Identification card, Driver’s Licence or valid passport Late arrivals — candidates must arrive for the examinations within 15 minutes of start of examination session. Mass cheating/mass question paper leakages — that is the premature access to question papers Most candidates are found on the wrong side of the regulations because they lack the relevant knowledge of the examination rules. The rules and regulations of examinations should be taught to examination candidates so that they preserve the integrity of the examination and do not align themselves with dishonest people. The Zimsec Regulations state clearly that any candidate found guilty of the above would have their results either withheld (w) pending an investigation or they are nullified (cancelled). Therefore, teachers, candidates and guardians are encouraged to send tip offs and blow the whistle on anyone who would try to compromise the examinations and the future of the next generation. www.zimsec.co.zw or pr.infor.co.zw or WhatsApp 0772 148786 or FB- Zimbabwe School Examinations Council- Zimsec Public Relations