Peter de Villiers Mehluli Sibanda, Senior Sports Reporter THE Sables have gone into camp at Zesa Training Centre to prepare for their crucial opening Rugby Africa Gold Cup match against Morocco at Harare Sports Club on Saturday. Morocco arrived in Harare yesterday. Morocco arrived in Zimbabwe early to acclimatise to the southern African nation just to show how serious they are taking this year’s Gold Cup, which serves as a qualifier for the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan. Coach Peter De Villiers called up 29 players into camp and will name his final 23 for the Morocco tie later this week. A number of uncapped players such as the Stander brothers, Jannie (lock) and Johan (utility forward), Brandon Mandivenga (utility back), Kudakwashe Nyakufaringwa (lock) and wing Ziyanda Khupe have all been called into camp. Saturday’s match is the beginning of a hectic schedule for the Sables in their quest to qualify for the 2019 Rugby World Cup. After Saturday’s game, Zimbabwe will be off to Kenya for a clash with the East Africans on June 30. From Kenya, the Sables head to Tunisia for a clash on July 7. Hartsfield in Bulawayo is the venue for Zimbabwe’s biggest match of the campaign against Namibia on August 4 before taking on Uganda on August 18. Zimbabwe Rugby Union president, Aaron Jani, said they were delighted with preparations for the Sables’ opening match. Local engineering company Machinery Exchange has been revamping Harare Sports Club and the facility will be renamed Machinery Exchange Rugby Stadium. “We are happy we managed to get a sponsor, Machinery Exchange, to revamp the stadium to ensure that the fans are more comfortable and watch an international game in a comfortable environment. They have been at work for the last two weeks and no games will be played there until the Gold Cup encounter,” Jani said. More support has come for the Sables for the Gold Cup, with mining company Zerttew Resources being their main sponsor. “We have received a lot of support and Zerttew Resources are the main sponsors for the Sables. Our other sponsors are Portnex, Titan Law, Canterbury, SeedCo, Dairibord, Machinery Exchange, Fawcett and Old Mutual,” he said. Zimbabwe’s match against Morocco will be televised live on Kwese Sports, ZTV and some French channels. Zimbabwe squad Shingirai Katsvere, Takudzwa Kumadiro, Kudzai Mashawi, Dylan Baptista, Ziyanda Khupe, Ngoni Chibuwe, Brandon Mandivenga, Matthew McNab, Lenience Tambwera, Hilton Mudariki, Ernest Mudzengerere, Peter Du Toit, Tapfuma Parirenyatwa, Connor Pritchard, Biselele Tshamala, Njabulo Ndlovu, Takudzwa Mandiwanza, Fortune Chipendu, Brian Nyaude, Jannie Stander, Johan Stander, Kudakwashe Nyakufaringwa, Farai Mudariki, Gabriel Sipapati, Denford Mutamangira, Lawrence Cleminson, David Makanda, Matthew Mandioma. @Mdawini_29