Darlington Majonga Mehluli Sibanda, Senior Sports Reporter DESPITE the absence of some senior players from the squad to face Australia as well as Pakistan in the triangular Twenty20 International series, Zimbabwe Cricket insists that the tour is not under any player boycott threat. Last week, ZC released a 22-man squad for the series without Brendan Taylor, Graeme Cremer, Sikandar Raza, Craig Ervine and Sean Williams. There has been speculation that some among the 22 had given ZC up to today to pay them their outstanding dues or they would withdraw from the squad. However, ZC media and communications manager Darlington Majonga is adamant those selected will play. “There is no ultimatum whatsoever. All is set for the tour and we are looking forward to an exhilarating contest that is consistent with the edge-of-the-seat features of T20 cricket. The selected players are brimming with confidence and they are all cherishing the opportunity to face Australia and Pakistan, two of the world’s best sides in the shortest format of the game,” Majonga said. On the absence of Taylor, Cremer, Raza, Ervine and Williams, Majonga said some players had asked to be excused. He indicated that the selectors still had a number of options, with players who showed great form in the just ended practice matches against Kenya. “No player was excluded or snubbed, but I can confirm there are players that didn’t make themselves available for selection. The selectors were, however, not short of options and they picked the squad from the players who participated in the very successful 20-over tournament involving two local sides, the Zimbabwe Select, Board XI, and Kenya,” he said. On when ZC will pay the players their outstanding money, Majonga said ZC had made an undertaking to pay by July 25. “We continue working hard to address our cash flow challenges and made a commitment to pay players their outstanding money up to their June salaries by the 25th of July and their July salaries by the end of July. A plan is also in place to settle the Sri Lanka match fees in the next few weeks,” Majonga said. On whether ZC has ever explained its financial state to the players, Majonga said chairman Tavengwa Mukuhlani had a meeting with them last month to explain the situation. “Our chairman called a meeting with all the players last month and explained to them ZC’s challenges, including financial difficulties. The players asked ZC to put its commitment to settle money they are owed in writing and this was done. ZC understands the difficulties the players and staff members have had to endure, but they have been very understanding and positive and the board and management are very appreciative of their support and hard work,” said Majonga. On reports that ZC had withdrawn Raza’s no-objection certificate (NOC) to enable him to play in the inaugural Global T20 Canada, Majonga said no such certificate had ever been given to the player. Raza had signed to play for Montreal Tigers in the league, which runs from June 28 to July 15 and requires a NOC to play in the Canadian league. “ZC has not issued an NOC to any player to participate in the Canada Global T20 League.” Meanwhile, Australia and Pakistan are expected in the country on Thursday. The triangular series runs from July 1-8 at Harare Sports Club. After that the Pakistanis will stay for a five-match ODI series at Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo from July 13-22. @Mdawini_29