DJ Liz holding BAA gong Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent FEMALE wheel spinner DJ Liz (real name Sharmaine Waldman) is grateful for the love and support she got from fans and fellow DJs that saw her earn her first gong at the Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards as the Outstanding Club DJ. And as a way to thank people for their support, the DJ will be celebrating the win with a braai party at Hartsfield Tshisanyama tomorrow. DJ Liz, who was up against seasoned wheel spinners, DJs Slamma, Yugo and Mark Vusani in the same category, said her win showed that her brand has grown in leaps and bounds. After the disappointment of being nominated last year and not winning, DJ Liz said when her name was called out, she was so surprised. So overwhelmed was she that she did not notice DJ Slamma who angled in for a hug to congratulate her. “I was so surprised. Even the fact that I couldn’t see that Slamma was trying to hug me when they announced me as the winner showed that I was overwhelmed. I’m still overwhelmed,” said DJ Liz. “I’m just glad that I won the award. I’m happy that DJ Liz as a brand is being appreciated as people voted for me. I’m hoping that there’s many more to come.” During the RoilBAA’s nomination announcement, there were people, especially DJs, who felt that DJ Liz did not deserve to be on the list. And when she won, it became worse as some felt she did not deserve it as she was an infant in the industry. DJ Liz has been at it for the past four years while her counterparts like Slamma have been in the business for over 10 years. DJ Liz however, said she was not fazed as she believes she has worked hard to build her brand. “People will talk and people will hate because firstly, I’m a female DJ and secondly, I haven’t been in the industry for a very long time. Sadly for them, I didn’t nominate myself, people nominated me and the public decided that I deserved to win an award. I feel that I’ve grown my brand and a lot of people know DJ Liz,” she said. “I’ve worked hard to be where I am today. I’ve been deejaying for a while now, four years to be precise. It might not be long enough for some, but they should ask the adjudicators why they chose me.” To develop her career, DJ Liz said she wants to venture into music production and is interested in working with rapper ASAPH who won the best hip hop gong at the same awards. “It’s something that I’ve been thinking about doing for a very long time. I can’t sing to save my life, but I can produce some beats for people like ASAPH. I think we can make great music,” said DJ Liz. Meanwhile, another RoilBAA winner in the Male Artiste of the year category — Babongile Sikhonjwa — will also be celebrating his gong with a party at the Richmond Recreational Club this afternoon. Skyz Metro FM personalities will be at the event dubbed Umcimbi kaSikhonjwa with performances by a host of Bulawayo artistes. An afterparty will be held at the Red Cafe later in the evening.