City of Bulawayo Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent Today all roads in Bulawayo lead to White City Stadium where President Emmerson Mnangagwa will address a  Zanu-PF Star Rally expected to attract thousands of people from the city and beyond. The President will first tour the specialist hospital, Ekusileni, which has been a white elephant for years. The health institution, the brainchild of the late Father Zimbabwe, Dr Joshua Nkomo, was closed a few months after opening in 2001 because its equipment was obsolete. In an interview yesterday, Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Angeline Masuku said among the issues the President is expected to address is the re-industrialisation of Bulawayo which used to be the country’s industrial hub. “We expect the President to tell the people what Government is doing to revive Bulawayo industries given that some of the companies do not need a lot of money. Government obviously has a programme to assist companies here in Bulawayo because it is sensitive to the plight of its people,” she said. Cde Masuku said Bulawayo residents were also looking forward to the re-opening of Ekusileni Hospital where millions of dollars were spent to build the health institution meant to provide specialist medical services not only to Zimbabwe but the region as well. She said Bulawayo should benefit with the opening of the country for busines given that it already has the required infrastructure. “We want some of the investors to come to Bulawayo which does not only have the required infrastructure but is strategically positioned in the country and the region,” said Cde Masuku. Zanu-PF provincial secretary for finance Cde Mlungisi Moyo said residents were looking forward to the opening of many companies whose buildings have been turned into churches. He said the re-engagement with other nations should open doors for Bulawayo’s industrialisation drive. Pelandaba-Mpopoma aspiring MP Cde Joseph Tshuma said Zanu-PF was committed towards the revival of the city’s industries citing the National Railways of Zimbabwe revival deal. He said Bulawayo has been granted the Special Economic Zone status which should help attact more investors to the city.  — @nqotshili.