 AUSTRALIA’S upcoming Twenty20 International tri-series in Zimbabwe is under threat, with Zimbabwe players reportedly issuing an ultimatum to their governing body: pay us by June 25, or we’ll boycott the series. A Zimbabwe-Pakistan T20I is slated for July 1 in Harare to kick-start the tournament also featuring a strong Australian outfit. However, according to an ESPN report, players are still waiting on match fees from last July’s tour of Sri Lanka, as well as three months’ salary. Zimbabwe Cricket (ZC), which has battled financial stability for the vast majority of the century, is due to receive an injection of funds from the ICC next month, but with the deadline set for June 25, the situation could reach crisis point. According to a ZC spokesperson, the matter is expected to be resolved this week. “Due to a very difficult financial situation beyond its control, ZC has been unable to meet some of its obligations, including paying player and staff salaries in time,” the spokesperson told ESPN. “However, because this is a matter of top priority, ZC has been working round the clock to address the challenge and, as promised to the players by our chairman, ZC expects to start processing payments this week.” A Cricket Australia spokesperson said they were monitoring the situation in Zimbabwe. ZC was struck another blow in its ill-fated history last month when managing director Faisal Hasnain resigned from his post less than a year after being appointed. With Hasnain on board, Zimbabwe had been able to lure big-name players Kyle Jarvis and Brendan Taylor, both of whom had taken Kolpak deals to play in England, back into the fold, while also earning hosting rights for the World Cup qualifiers. However, their failure to qualify for next year’s World Cup led to the board’s decision to fire the entire coaching staff, as well as convener of selectors Tatenda Taibu. Since, Lalchand Rajput has been appointed as interim head coach, but players are, however, presently refusing to train. The exit of Hasnain has also complicated potential negotiations between the players (who do not have a union but have hired a lawyer to represent them) and the board; without a managing director, they are unsure with whom they should be dealing. On Monday night, ZC issued a press release saying South African Vincent van der Bijl, a former ICC umpires and referees’ manager, has been appointed a consultant to the organisation “with immediate effect”. “He will assist ZC in all cricket matters, working closely with the board, the executive and national team management to map out a positive, constructive path forward,” the statement read. “The move … is part of a major initiative by ZC to restructure its domestic and international cricket.” Australia have not played cricket in any format in Zimbabwe since a tri-series with the hosts and South Africa in 2014. — Cricket.com.au