President Mnangagwa Cuthbert Mavheko The forthcoming harmonised elections are vaunted as Zimbabwe’s most important elections since independence in 1980, primarily because they seek to endorse or reject the new dispensation that rolled into power following the resignation of former president Robert Mugabe in November 2017. For the first time in over three decades, Zimbabwe’s elections are being held under a new dispensation and the entire world is closely watching the birth of a new era in the country’s history. A recent survey by a Kenyan research network Trends and Insights for Africa (TIFA) shows that if elections were held today, President Emmerson Mnangagwa would garner 68,5 percent of the vote against Advocate Nelson Chamisa’s 19,5 percent.  Last month, another Kenyan research network, the Pan African Forum Limited released a survey whose results forecast President Mnangagwa would win with 70 percent of the vote against Adv Chamisa’s 24 percent. Mr Nelson Chamisa It is the humble submission of this scribe that President Mnangagwa and Zanu-PF are heading for a resounding victory in the upcoming elections, primarily because their policies are people-centred. Zimbabwe is today slowly emerging from a crippling economic meltdown precipitated by Mr Mugabe’s ruinous policies, which saw agricultural production, which is the country’s mainstay, decline. This caused the massive closure of companies, resulting in hordes of once-gainfully employed workers being hurled into the chilly waters of joblessness. The new dispensation is working flat out to clear the mess created by the old dispensation. As the elections draw nearer, Zimbabweans have clearly demonstrated that they are capable of conducting their elections peacefully without violence and intimidation. And Zimbabwe today stands as a very good example to other African countries, if not the entire world, of how to conduct peaceful, free, fair and credible elections. The Government should be commended for the good work it has done to ensure that the elections are free, fair and credible. The voters’ roll, which was manipulated during the 2013 elections, has been updated to the satisfaction of most stakeholders. In addition, the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec), which used to pander to the whims of former president Robert Mugabe, now has a new, independent chairperson. President Mnangagwa has also lifted Mr Mugabe’s ban on election observers from the West, including the European Union and the Commonwealth. Given the foregoing as a backdrop, it is clear that Zimbabwe is heading for free, fair and credible elections. This was affirmed by the Comesa pre-election assessment mission, which said Zimbabwe is on course to hold a free, fair and credible election. Presenting the MDC Alliance manifesto not so long ago, Advocate Chamisa called on war veterans to vote for him, promising them lucrative benefits if he is voted into power. To me, this is school-boy politics which should be treated with dismissive scorn. Adv Chamisa should divorce his mind from illusions and hallucinations and face reality. Zanu-PF’s ideology is entrenched in the hearts and minds of Zimbabwe’s war veterans because it is this same ideology that inspired and guided them during the protracted liberation struggle. To this end, anyone who thinks he can separate war veterans from Zanu-PF is obviously day-dreaming. One does not need to be well-versed in rocket science to discern that the MDC Alliance is already sensing defeat and is now seeking to discredit the elections even before they are held. Their wild demands for electoral reforms at the eleventh hour underscore this pertinent observation. During a “protest” held in Harare by the MDC Alliance not so long ago, supporters of the doomed alliance were at their hysterical and maniacal worst. They hurled insults at President Mnangagwa and threatened to bring the country to a standstill through massive demonstrations aimed at forcing him out of office. Indeed, it is disquieting to note that the hordes of thuggish MDC Alliance supporters, who participated in this demonstration, did so at the instigation of the alliance, which professes to champion the cause of democracy. What a shameful disgrace! While peace and tranquillity reign supreme in Zimbabwe, many African countries are bedevilled with civil wars that are claiming the lives of thousands of people every day. These countries include the Democratic Republic of Congo, Nigeria, Somalia and Southern Sudan. We should never take for granted the peace and stability that we have in this country. Lest we forget, Zimbabwe is a nation that is founded on the blood, sweat and tears of  our gallant sons and daughters, who sacrificed their precious lives during a protracted liberation war that claimed the lives of thousands of people. It is this struggle that identifies us as a unique, sovereign people. As Zimbabweans, we must know where we came from, where we are today and where we are going as a nation. It is always important to constantly remind ourselves that thousands of revolutionary fighters, peasants, workers, mujibhas and chimbwidos sacrificed their precious lives for our freedom and independence. We are what we are today because of the selfless sacrifices that went into the revolution. We must not therefore be hoodwinked by those who masquerade as champions of democracy, and yet inside they are ravenous political wolves who entered politics for personal glory and self-aggrandisement only. Today Zimbabwe is, metaphorically speaking, a political soccer pitch with the entire world watching from the terraces to see how we conduct ourselves in this pre-election period, during and after the elections. It is an open secret that some observers, who have descended on the country for the harmonised elections, have done so with their minds already set over who should win. They have come to this country, not because they love this nation, but rather to try to create faults so as to discredit the elections and with that the Zimbabwe Government. Parting shot: As the hour of reckoning draws nearer, Zimbabweans of genuine democratic orientation must focus on making the 2018 harmonised elections a new political era of lasting peace, unity and co-operation which engender national development. A lot is at stake in these elections and history will judge us by the choices we make when we vote. When all has been said and done, it is important to emphasise that our very nationhood and identity as a sovereign people could be obliterated if we cast our votes in wrong places. Cuthbert Mavheko is a freelance journalist based in Bulawayo and has contributed articles and short stories to the Chronicle, Sunday News, Herald and various other local publications since 1995.  He can be contacted through e-mail mavhekoc@gmail.com or 0773 963 448