 Fortwell Wholesale is a well established Bulawayo based business which commenced trading in 1985 and boasts of over 25 years wholesale experience. The business was started by Mr Elias Androu as B&B Construction and Furniture Manufacturers in 1980 and branched into the wholesale business in 1985. His son George Androuliakos left the accounting profession (Coopers & Lybrand ) in 1994 and joined the family business. We now operate three branches in Bulawayo and one in Victoria Falls employing 270 workers. WHAT THE COMPANY DOES Fortwell Wholesale is one of the largest independent wholesale distributors in the Matabeleland region. Our focus is wholesaling groceries and provisions. STRATEGY Fortwell Wholesale is renowned for being the largest stocker of basic food commodities and the main distributor to over 500 customers situated throughout the Matabeleland region. As part of its growth strategy, Fortwell Wholesale will be looking to increase its footprint and incorporate in its offering additional products including hardware, meat products and a Liquor & Poultry Wholesale section. Our main wholesale outlet and administration block is situated at Corner Doncaster Road and 23rd Avenue in Belmont. Our second largest branch is at No 33 – 12th Avenue Herbert Chitepo Street, our third branch is at 12 Woodstock Road Thorngrove and our 4th Branch 43A Miles Road, Victoria Falls. Our vision as a whole is in the next three years to open branches in Plumtree and Tsholotsho; taking the goods to the people. We value our customers and endeavour to meet all their requirements. BUSINESS CONCEPT PRODUCTS      Basic commodities, that is sugar, cooking oil, etc, soaps and detergents, personal care products, general goods, beverages and liquors, confectionary and snacks, medicines and other products. SERVICES     We offer good customer care, transportation when necessary and the best prices in town. MANAGEMENT The company is currently going through a business transformation process, which saw the introduction of a new leadership structure along with some refinement of its processes to remain agile in its quest to meet customer needs. Recognition, Honours and Awards -Wholesale of the Year 2017 —  Confederation of Zimbabwe Retailers (Matabeleland) - Wholesale Legend: Elias Androu (Fortwell Director) — Confederation of Zimbabwe Retailers (Matabeleland) - 1st Runner Up for Best Corporate Social Responsibility Initiatives in the year 2017 (ZNCC — Matabeleland Chapter) - 1st Runner Up in the Zimbabwe Institute of Management Leadership Excellence Awards, Leader of the Year Category for 2017.