 Cape Town — Uruguay made light work of Soccer World Cup host nation Russia as goals from Luis Suarez and Edison Cavani secured top spot in Group A for the South Americans yesterday. With 10 minutes on the clock, Yuri Gazinskiy brought down Rodrigo Bentancur just outside the box, before Suarez stepped up and got Uruguay off the mark from the dead ball situation. Minutes later Russia found themselves 2-0 down as they failed to properly clear a corner which saw Diego Laxalt’s long-range shot take a heavy deflection off Denis Cheryshev and wrong-foot Igor Akinfeev. Late in the second-half, Cavani added his name to the score sheet after the Paris Saint-Germain striker was quick off the mark to tap home from close range. Russia finish second in the group while Saudi Arabia beat Egypt 2-1 to end their campaign in the third position. The Round of 16 begins on Saturday, June 30. Meanwhile, A goal in the 95th minute has seen Saudi Arabia snatch a 2-1 victory from Egypt in Group A at the 2018 Soccer World Cup in Russia. Egypt opened the scoring in the 22nd minute thanks to their talisman, Mohamed Salah who brilliantly controlled a ball over the top with a single touch and then lobbed the on-rushing Saudi keeper with ease. Saudi Arabia were awarded a penalty in the 39th minute only for Egyptian goalkeeper, Essam El Hadary, at 45, the oldest every player to play in a World Cup, to save from Fahad Al-Muwallad. The scores were level on the stroke of half-time when Saudi Arabia were awarded another penalty with Salman Al Faraj sending El Hadary the wrong way. The second half saw both sides spurn excellent chances to take the lead. Saudi Arabia, however, stunned the Pharaohs with a goal at the death, thanks to Al Dawsari. In the other match in the group, Uruguay burst Russia’s bubble, running out easy 3-0 winners to top the standings. GROUP A P    W    L    D    Pts Uruguay    3    3    0    0    9 Russia    3    2    1    0    6 Egypt    3    1    2    0    3 Saudi Arabia    3    0    3    0    0 — Sport24.