 Business Reporter PAN-African banking group, Ecobank, has won two major awards at the recent African Banker’s prestigious ceremony held in Busan, South Korea. The bank has been named ‘best retail bank in Africa’ after impressing judges with the strides it has made to leverage digital financial services and an enhanced service model to be the retail bank of choice. Its mobile banking app, which has now been downloaded by more than five million people, took the prize for innovation in banking. The technology has redefined borderless and inclusive banking along with several other transformative innovations designed to deliver financial services to  all. It is the first unified banking application across 33 countries and enables customers to do their banking activities where and when they want, 24/7 and 365 days a year, conveniently on their mobile phones. The app allows transactions in 18 different currencies and in four languages (English, French, Portuguese and Spanish). Omar Ben Yedder, publisher of African Banker commented: “Ecobank has had a game changing year in so many ways and their approach to embracing technology and putting it at the centre of their growth strategy has obviously paid dividends.” Ecobank group chief executive, Ade Ayeyemi, said “It gives all of us at Ecobank great pride to be recognised as not only the best retail bank in Africa, but also the most innovative. “This is further proof that we are on the right track in our quest to be the bank of choice for middle Africa. We will continue to ensure that we are at the forefront of harnessing state-of-the-art technology to provide our customers with accessible and affordable banking services.” Ecobank thrives to provide a range of financial products and services that meet the day-to-day banking, transactional and investment needs of all Africans. The bank garnered a 40 percent increase in customer numbers during 2017 and aims to serve 100 million customers by the end of 2020. The leading independent pan-African banking group has a presence in 36 African countries and employs 15 930 people in 40 different countries in over 940 branches and offices. Ecobank is a full-service bank providing wholesale, retail, investment and transaction banking services and products to governments, financial institutions, multinationals, international organisations, medium, small and micro businesses and individuals.