 Moscow — France coach Didier Deschamps yesterday played down a suggestion from Paul Pogba that the tournament in Russia could be the Manchester United midfielder’s last World Cup. Pogba, 25, caused a stir on Sunday when he told reporters this summer’s World Cup could be his final one “because you don’t know what can happen tomorrow”. “I don’t think it will be his last World Cup, given he’s only 25. In four years he will be 29 years old. It’s likely he’ll play in others,” Deschamps said ahead of France’s final group game with Denmark. “He’s had to go through some more difficult periods,” Deschamps, who took over the France job in 2012, said of Pogba. “In my own relations with him, I still see the same player. He has gained a lot of experience even if he is only 25 years old. He’s good in his head, he’s happy and he’s very motivated.” France top Group C with six points after wins over Australia and Peru, and will clinch first place if they avoid defeat to Denmark in Moscow. Meanwhile, Denmark coach Age Hareide said his critical remarks of World Cup hopefuls France were “taken out of context” ahead of today’s World Cup clash with the Group C leaders. Hareide gave a withering assessment of France in the run-up to the tournament, claiming they were “nothing special” and that they lacked a “leader such as Zinedine Zidane”. “First of all these were things taken out of context,” Hareide said in Moscow yesterday. “If you’d read the whole article you would have seen I was comparing with the ‘98 team. “You can pick anything from an article you like, but I was just comparing with the best version of France we have ever seen.” Denmark face France needing a point from their final game to be sure of a place in the last 16, as they bid to reach the knockout rounds of a World Cup for the first time since 2002. Norwegian Hareide said the Danes would go in search of victory, resisting the dangerous temptation to look to settle for a draw. “I know one point will be enough but that’s not a good way to start the match,” he said. “If you put that into your players’ heads there will be passiveness in the team and that’s not good.” “It will be a tough match tomorrow,” Hareide added. “The players worked very hard in the first two matches. “We haven’t done our best in terms of play but we’ve worked very hard for the points. We can’t ask for more.” Hareide singled out Paul Pogba for his flashy haircuts as part of last month’s criticism of France, but the 64-year-old was far more complimentary yesterday. “France have a team with so many good individual players,” said Hareide. “With Pogba you know what he delivers as a player, you can’t really compare with anything in Europe. And you have (Antoine) Griezmann up front, those are two pre-eminent players.” Denmark would qualify regardless of how they fare against France if Australia fail to beat Peru in the other group match in Sochi. Hareide admitted he and his coaching staff would be keeping an eye on proceedings in the Black Sea resort. “We do have communication with our guy who is there and my assistant Jon Dahl (Tomasson) will receive the information,” Hareide said. “We will know how that’s going on an ongoing basis. I’m not sure I’ll tell the players though.” *Switzerland players Granit Xhaka, Xherdan Shaqiri and Stephan Lichtsteiner escaped bans yesterday for celebrating goals with a pro-Kosovo double eagle gesture in their World Cup win over Serbia. The double eagle symbol represents the Albanian flag and is viewed as a symbol of defiance in Kosovo, which declared independence in 2008 in a move that Serbia still refuses to recognise. The players’ celebrations in the 2-1 win over Serbia in Kaliningrad on Friday caused outrage in Serbia. FifaA rules prohibit political symbols in stadiums and the three players could have been banned. — AFP.