President Hage Geingob Nyemudzai Kakore, Harare Bureau Namibia, Rwanda and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela have condemned the assassination attempt on President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Saturday soon after his address to a Zanu-PF rally at White City Stadium in Bulawayo. The denunciation comes after both the African Union and Sadc also condemned the attack, which resulted in the death of two people and left 47 people injured. In a statement released by his press secretary and Presidential advisor Dr Tjiurimo Hengari, Namibian President Mr Hage Geingob said political violence would not be tolerated in the Sadc region, noting that perpetrators should be brought to justice. Mr Geingob, who is also the deputy chairperson of Sadc, called for calm and respect of the rule of law following blasts in both Zimbabwe and Ethiopia at rallies on Saturday. “The only legitimate path towards forming a Government in the African Union is by winning peaceful, free and fair elections, and such a process should be respected in Zimbabwe where elections are due on 30 July this year,” he said. President Geingob condemned the deadly attack at the public rally addressed by the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Abiy Ahmed, also on Saturday that claimed the lives of two people. He expressed his sincere condolences to those who lost their loved ones in Addis Ababa and wished the injured in Ethiopia and Zimbabwe a speedy recovery. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela said it was pleased to learn that President Mnangagwa was in good health and looked forward to the full recovery of those wounded during the attack. “The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela reaffirms its friendship and solidarity with the Government and the people of the Republic of Zimbabwe, and holds dearly the peace and stability in this sister nation,” said the country in a statement. “The Bolivarian Government is pleased to learn that President Mnangagwa is in good health and looks forward to the full recovery of those wounded during the attack. “It also congratulates President Mnangagwa on his speech after the attack, reaffirming the unshakeable faith of the Zimbabwean Government that the Presidential elections of July 30 will take place as scheduled, demonstrating unequivocally that the democratic will of the Zimbabwean people will vanquish the slightest hint of political violence.” The Rwandan Government said, “It is with deep sadness that the Government of the Republic of Rwanda learnt of the horrific bomb attack at an election campaign rally in the City of Bulawayo that injured close to 50 people,” it said. “The people and Government of Rwanda extend their heartfelt condolences to the Government and the people of the                                               Republic of Zimbabwe, especially the families of those affected. Our thoughts and prayers are with you as we wish a full recovery to those injured.”