The late Lovemore Zigara Midlands Correspondent ZIMPAPERS correspondent Lovemore Zigara who died in an accident on Saturday was yesterday laid to rest at Mutasa Cemetery in Gweru. Zigara (35) was given a befitting send off by multitudes of people drawn from the Midlands Business community, local authorities, politicians, the football and media fraternity as well as the Gweru community at large. Speaker after speaker described the late Zigara as hardworking, versatile, adventurous and candid journalist. Gweru Mayor Councillor Charles Chikozho described Zigara as a principled and professional journalist whose reportage was objective and insightful. “I want to express my heartfelt condolences to the Zigara family following the death of Lovemore. We worked with him for close to 10 years and he executed his work diligently. Personally he helped me to grow politically. He was objective, principled and professional,” he said. Gweru Press Club secretary general, Munyaradzi Musiiwa described the late Zigara as an astute leader who united Midlands journalists. “I would also want to express my heartfelt condolences to the Zigara family and fellow journalists. Zigara who was the Gweru Press Club chairman at the time of his death, was a unifier. He was a versatile, adventurous and hardworking journalist. He was a source of inspiration to young journalists. As the Gweru Press Club we are poorer without Lovemore. He has left a big void that will be difficult to fill. “We were deeply saddened by the passing on of Zigara. He is a loss to the media fraternity and the Gweru community at large,” he said. On Tuesday, Midlands Minister of State, Cde Owen Ncube also described Zigara as a dedicated journalist who was committed to contributing towards the development of the Midlands Province. Zigara was born in 1983 and attended Stanley Primary School and Fletcher High School. He studied journalism at Christian College of Southern Africa (CCOSA) after which he joined New Ziana Community newspaper, The Gweru Times. In 2013 he joined Chronicle as Sports correspondent. He also wrote business news for the publication. He was also contributing stories to ZiFM, The Financial Gazette and The Source. He started contributing to 98.4 FM Midlands and was the presenter of the Gweru-based radio station’s flagship programme, State of Midlands. Zigara died when the car he was driving collided head on with another vehicle along the Gweru-Kwekwe road near Kwekwe River. He is survived by his wife Michelle and two sons.