 Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporte POLICE have arrested a man (34) from Nkayi for allegedly slitting a woman’s throat before sucking her blood. Christopher Sibanda of Sikhewu village under Chief Sikhobokhobo fled from the scene following the fatal attack, leaving behind a pot he had used to collect some blood. He was later arrested. The suspect is alleged to have pounced on Subusisiwe Sigauke who was on her way from Kana Mission Hospital. He allegedly hit his victim with a log before cutting her throat with an unidentified sharp object. The incident occurred at around 2PM on Wednesday along the main road from Kana Mission Hospital to Sikhewu village. Matabeleland North acting provincial police spokesperson Assistant Inspector Eglon Nkala confirmed the incident. “I can confirm a suspect who allegedly committed murder at around 2PM on Wednesday along the main road from Kana Mission Hospital to Sikhewu village. Villagers who had embarked on a manhunt, apprehended him and surrendered him to police and he is in custody,” said Asst Insp Nkala. The area’s Ward 9 councillor, Mr Edward Marijeni, said the community was in shock over the gruesome killing. “We have known Sibanda to be a man who sometimes seems to lose his mind although he has never been violent. He has allegedly never been on treatment for mental challenge. “Sibanda attacked the elderly woman while she was on her way to her home from hospital where she had gone to collect some medication,” he said. “He struck her several times with a log before allegedly cutting her throat. Villagers who discovered him at the crime scene allege that he was sucking the victim’s blood after finding him sticking his mouth on the wound.” The matter was reported to police who attended the scene and collected the body. Villagers told Chronicle that Sibanda was caught red-handed by a passersby while sucking Sigauke’s blood from the open wound. “He had also collected some blood into a pot suspected to have oozed from the victim’s wound. “He was found kneeling next to the body with his bloody mouth on the wound. When people attempted to apprehend him he fled from the scene,” said a member of the neighbourhood watch committee, Mr Thelelani Bhebhe. — @winnie_masara.