Hwange power plant Felex Share in Harare and Leonard Ncube in Hwange, Senior Reporters PRESIDENT Mnangagwa is today expected to commission construction of the $1 billion Hwange 7 and 8 Power extension project as his administration continues to drive the country towards energy self-sufficiency as a key economic enabler. The two units are expected to add 600 megawatts to the power station, whose generation capacity currently stands at 920 MW. The project, which is expected to create hundreds of immediate jobs for Zimbabweans, is being financed through a loan from China Export Import Bank. The Zimbabwe Power Company (ZPC) has already started drawing down on the $1 billion facility and work on the ground has begun. Sinohydro, a Chinese firm which recently completed another 300 MW expansion project in Kariba, is also the contractor for the Hwange project. Zesa chief executive Engineer Josh Chifamba yesterday said all was set for the commissioning of the project. “All is in place and we are looking forward to this exciting moment,” he said. “The last time we did investment in Hwange was more than 30 years ago. This is a very important development and what it means for the country is we are putting the correct fundamentals for power supply to support the economy. We expect the economy to experience a boost in the coming years and this is all the foundation we are laying to support the economy.” Energy and Power Development Minister Simon Khaya Moyo weighed in: “It’s a very important landmark. We are not yet self-sufficient in power generation. “We still continue to import power from Eskom, South Africa and HCB in Mozambique but this is a very determined move to show that we are aiming at self-sufficiency and the groundbreaking ceremony opens the way. There are also a number of other independent power producers and we want to accelerate solar projects together with the rural electrification projects. We we need more power now because there is no doubt industries will be opening and they all need power.” Meanwhile, people from Matabeleland North should be the happiest in the country as the province is poised for a major economic boom following a number of capital projects initiated by President Mnangagwa in the province. The President will today address a rally in Hwange where about 10 000 people are expected to attend after presiding over a groundbreaking ceremony at the ZPC expansion project. The rally will take place at 2PM at Hwange Colliery Stadium. In an interview in Hwange yesterday, the Minister of State for Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs, Cde Cain Mathema, said the province is excited by the coming of the President. He said there are many quick-win projects that the President has initiated in the province. “The man of peace is coming to Matabeleland North and we welcome him especially when we know that there is quite a lot of developmental projects that he has initiated in the province,” said Cde Mathema. He said the province, which has a population of more than 750 000, is poised for a major economic boom which will result in thousands getting jobs. “We are talking of billions of dollars worth of projects initiated by President Mnangagwa. These include Empumalanga Clinic, a new satellite town in Ndlovu outside Victoria Falls, a five-star hotel near Victoria Falls International Airport, a lithium project in Kamativi, coal-bed methane gas project in Lusulu, a petro-chemical industry in Lupane and Nkayi as well as the dualisation of the Bulawayo-Victoria Falls Road,” said Cde Mathema. He said the people of Matabeleland North should be happy and wish the President well by voting for him. Cde Mathema called for peace during election campaigns in the province saying people should heed the President’s call for peace and tolerance. “We don’t want any violence of any sort. With elections coming, let’s all be peaceful, in fact we totally reject what happened in Bulawayo and my call is for the people of this province to be united and peaceful,” he said. The Minister toured the venue to check on progress. The Chronicle also visited the venue of the rally yesterday where workmen were putting final touches to the VIP tent, stage and other sitting areas. Some were cleaning around the stadium while Zanu-PF and President Mnangagwa’s posters were pasted everywhere. The steering committee said about 10 000 people are expected at the rally. Transport was still being mobilised yesterday with buses expected to be dispatched this morning to all wards in the district to carry people. Only invited guests will attend the groundbreaking ceremony while the rally is open. The groundbreaking will mark the commencement of the expansion of plant number 7 and 8 after China Exim Bank released an initial $200 million of the $1.5 billion required for the work. @ncubeleon