Dr Joram Gumbo Nyemudzai Kakore, Harare Bureau GOVERNMENT is engaging a Chinese Company, Anhui Foreign Economic Construction Group Limited (AFECC), for the dualisation of the Harare-Beitbridge-Chirundu Highway after it withdrew a tender that had been awarded to an Australian Company Geiger International. The development follows a Cabinet directive made in March instructing the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructural Development to begin the process of terminating the contract with Geiger after interminable delays in project implementation. During his five-day State visit to China recently, President Emmerson Mnangagwa said Government had withdrawn Geiger’s tender because of endless delays. Transport and Infrastructural Development Minister Dr Jorum Gumbo yesterday confirmed the development saying AFECC came second during the tendering process. He said Government cancelled the Geiger tender after it became impatient with lack of construction activity along the country’s busiest highway that links Zimbabwe, South Africa and several other countries in the north. “Government cancelled the agreement between Geiger international after two years of waiting and there was no proof of funding or any activity that is tangible on the dualisation between Beitbridge- Harare Chirundu Road,” he said. “After the cancellation, Cabinet in its own wisdom looked at the urgency of that road and decided that we consider the second bidder to that project. The second bidder is a company called Anhui Foreign Economic Construction Group Limited, AFECC, a Chinese company. “ Dr Gumbo said two meetings have been held so far between his Ministry and AFECC with Government seeking a firm commitment by the company to the effect that it would complete the project. “At the moment, negotiations are going on well with AFEC, they are providing the information that we are requesting them to provide and they are also asking questions, which we are providing answers for. At the moment all l can say is that there is progress between ourselves and the second bidder and we are hoping to conclude our discussions very soon,” he said. Japan, Dr Gumbo said, extended a $21 million grant to Zimbabwe for the improvement of steep gradients on the Makuti-Chirundu section of the North-South Corridor. This he said will reduce the final cost of rehabilitating the Harare-Chirundu section of the corridor. The grant agreement was signed on the 19th of June 2018. “The Japanese Government availed a grant of US$21 million for the rehabilitation and improvement of the Makuti escarpment. This will cover 6,5 km and will aid in improving the navigability of the road. It will also reduce the final cost of rehabilitating the Harare-Chirundu section of the corridor,” he said. AFECC constructed the Zimbabwe National Defence College in Harare, Longcheng Plaza also in Harare and the Golden Peacock Hotel in Mutare, and intends to put up a hotel and conference centre in Victoria Falls.