Rodwell Dhlakama Lovemore Zigara in GWERU Chapungu 2 – 3 ZPC Kariba ZPC KARIBA put up a vintage first half performance to score three goals and grab maximum points in yesterday’s Castle Lager Premiership match at Ascot Stadium. Pride Tafirenyika, Talent Chamboko and Dexter Phiri scored in a space of 10 minutes to give ZPC Kariba their second away win of the season after their first over Highlanders a few weeks ago. Chapungu tried to stage a comeback in the last 10 minutes, with goals from Edmore Muzanenhamo and Allen Tavarwisa, but it was too little too late as coach Rodwell Dhlakama was left searching for his first home win since taking over from Tendai Chikuni last month. ZPC Kariba showed early intent with Collen Muleya dictating pace in midfield and they deservedly took the lead in the 26th minute when Tafirenyika diverted Tawanda Nyamandwe’s shot past Chapungu goalkeeper Collen Phiri, who had dived the other way. Chamboko doubled the lead three minutes later when he won possession inside the box, picked his spot and released a curling shot beyond the reach of the goalkeeper. Then came a moment of brilliance in the 34th minute when left-back Phiri scored with a beautiful long range shot. Chapungu gained some mojo in the second half with Blessing Sahondo, who replaced veteran Philip Marufu, breathing some life on the flanks. The home side reduced arrears in the 80th minute when midfielder Edmore Muzanenhamo scored a goal that rivalled Phiri’s in terms of brilliance when his beautifully taken shot ricocheted from underneath the cross bar and bounced over the line. Tavarwisa then made it two in the 92nd minute from the penalty spot after Ian Nekati had handled inside the box. ZPC Kariba coach Godfrey Tamirepi was elated with the win. ‘We showed hunger from the start by playing purposeful football. We came with a game plan and got goals from a midfielder and a defender as well. But in the second half we were a bit sluggish, the boys were complacent and allowed Chapungu to score the two goals,” said Tamirepi. Dhlakama conceded defeat and said his team lost the match in the first half. “I think we didn’t come to the party in the first half. We didn’t press as much as we wanted,” said Dhlakama. Teams Chapungu: C Phiri, E Chitauro, R Bota, C Kwaramba, M Muchingami, E Muzanenhamo, T Kumbuyani, B Mugoni( I Nyoni 76min), A Tavarwisa, B Mtigo( L Gwerima 57min) P Marufu( B Sahondo 46min) ZPC Kariba: T Hove, B Zuberi, D Phiri, S Appiah, I Nekati, T Munyanduri, C Muleya, T Ranthokwane, P Tafirenyika( L Vundla 79min), T Chamboko, T Nyamandwe( M Demera 77 min)