President Emmerson Mnangagwa and Energy Minister Simon Khaya Moyo unveil a plaque at the groundbreaking ceremony for the Hwange Power station Expansion yesterday Oliver Kazunga in Hwange ZIMBABWE needs substantial investment in the energy sector to meet continued demand for power to propel economic growth through industrialisation, President Emmerson Mnangagwa said yesterday. Officiating at the groundbreaking ceremony for the $1,5 billion Hwange Thermal  Power Station expansion project for  Unit 7 and 8 here, he said adequate electricity supply was a pre-requisite for economic growth and sustainable socio-economic development. The breakthrough follows President Mnangagwa’s visit to China in April this year during which that country’s President Xi Jinping authorised the financing of the giant thermal power expansion programme. The President said the country presently requires adequate electricity to pursue its economic development agenda. “As a key enabler, energy drives economic development by facilitating the delivery of basic amenities such as clean water, health, shelter and education, among others. “Zimbabwe presently requires  substantial investment in the energy sector to meet cumulative demand for power,” he said. “We need power to mechanise and develop our irrigation to spearhead our Command Agriculture Programmes in order to continuously achieve food security. Electricity is further needed to revive and resuscitate our industries, among other uses.” Cde Mnangagwa said various energy sub-sectors present opportunity for exploration and exploitation of other renewable and non-renewable sources of power. He said that Government stands ready to facilitate both local and foreign investments to seize such opportunities. “Meanwhile, I exhort local companies to be on the forefront of securing joint ventures or partnerships to grow the sector through investments in coal-bed methane exploitation, solar, biogas and wind, among others,” said Cde Mnangagwa. He said the Hwange Thermal Power Station expansion project was set to be the largest energy infrastructure investment to be undertaken in Zimbabwe in recent years and would see an additional 600 megawatts added onto the national grid upon completion. Once it takes off, the power project is expected to be complete within 42 months. “This $1,5 billion project will go a long way in our quest to achieve energy self-sufficiency and meeting the increased demand for electricity,” he said. Zimbabwe’s daily average power consumption is about 1 600MW against an average internal generation capacity  of 1 200MW leaving the country with a power deficit which it is importing from neighbouring countries. Cde Mnangagwa said the Government was incurring a huge energy import bill, which was negatively impacting on Zimbabwe’s trade balance and thus reducing the country’s competitiveness in the region. The President said it was therefore essential for the nation to conserve power while improving and broadening internal generating capacity. He said Government would also continue to work towards the speedy implementation of the Batoka Gorge Hydro-power project in consultation with their Zambian counterparts. The Batoka project is envisaged to see a combined power output of 2 400MW. Cde Mnangagwa said the Government appreciates the need to develop the power transmission and distribution infrastructure across the country and was inviting investors to participate in this sector. “Equally, there is a need to extend the transmission and distribution grid especially to our rural and marginalised communities. This will go a long way towards the creation of rural industry systems and positively contribute to the development of provincial economies. “Infrastructure of this magnitude requires a lot of planning and good corporate management to ensure efficient, timely and cost effective implementation,” said the President. “I therefore, exhort Zesa, together with their partners and other local businesses that will participate in this project. I also urge all employees to exercise a good work ethic grounded on diligence, honesty, hard work, teamwork, unity and harmony.”