Garthly Chipuka Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter BULAWAYO Chiefs are not getting carried away by their win over table toppers Ngezi Platinum Stars last Sunday, as they prepare for a tough encounter against city neighbours Highlanders in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday. Chiefs stunned Ngezi 1-0 to become the first side to beat the log leaders this season. The new boys have developed a nice reputation for themselves as leagues giant killers after their previous great act saw them outfoxing joint log leaders FC Platinum 2-0. Chiefs’ win over Ngezi took them out of the relegation matrix and they are now 11th with 15 points from 15 games. Their opponents on Sunday, Bosso, are third on the table with 29 points. Chiefs coach Garthly Chipuka believes they have to be psychologically up to the task if they are to upset Highlanders. “We have a big game on Sunday and preparations have been going on well. Our biggest undoing has been lack of consistency, which was obviously caused by injuries to our strikers that forced us to use a defender as a striker. We had a good result last week and we have to build on that positive result. Highlanders are a good side that plays beautiful passing football and we have to be at our best to beat them. We need to be very cautious on Sunday and tactical discipline will be very key,” said Chipuka. Chiefs have been forced to use defender Moses Majika as their main striker in recent games following injuries to forwards, skipper Kundishora Chakanyuka, Mgcini Mpofu and Dylan Chivandire. Their preparations for the Bosso game have been boosted by the return of central defender Last Sithole from suspension. If they are to beat Bosso, Brighton Manhire, Perfect Chikwende, Gracious Muleya and Arthur Musiyiwa have to be on top of their game, as Highlanders will want to retain the Bulawayo bragging rights. Fixtures Saturday: Nichrut FC v Triangle (Ascot Stadium), ZPC Kariba v Harare City (Nyamhunga Stadium) Chicken Inn v Herentals (Luveve Stadium) Caps United v Bulawayo City (National Sports Stadium) Ngezi Platinum v FC Platinum (Baobab Stadium) Sunday: Mutare City v Dynamos (Vengere Stadium) Shabanie Mine v Black Rhinos (Maglas Stadium), Highlanders v Bulawayo Chiefs (Barbourfields Stadium) Yadah v Chapungu (National Sports Stadium). @innocentskizoe