 Stephen Mpofu Zimbabweans are on the brink of reviving a revolutionary flame which over the past three decades had seriously started to flag as some of those at the helm of the country lost focus and instead concentrated on feathering their own nests while those who thrust them into cushy air conditioned offices lived from hand to mouth. The harmonised elections set for July 30 should herald a new dawn with the re-incarnation of the revolutionary spirit that enabled the gallant sons and daughters to wrench the motherland from what had seemed an intractable grip by a foreign ruling culture. To be sure of victory, candidates and their supporters might wish to entreat the bright morning star to light up their life journey to the polls, so that they do not stumble along a path littered with prostitute prickers and with the future an ever receding dark tunnel. The black jacks are already raring to go by demonising the ruling party left right and centre, where possible, for it to try to lose votes to what, for want of better phraseology, fly by night political entities that are at best imperialist quislings and at worst creatures bereft of any nationalist spirit. The trending spoken desire of some political Machiavellians masquerading as patriots is for the election not to be declared free, fair and credible with foreign observers even from erstwhile bitter foes in a stampede to observe the polls. Zimbabweans from all structures of our society should realise that by casting their votes they are laying bricks for a firm future that will augur well for the nation as a whole. On the other hand, faulty ballots will only lay a weak foundation for the future. But of course the outcome of the elections will be pre-determined by the way Zimbabweans campaign and behave in the run up to July 30. If they put the interests of the people before personal political interests that have tended to rare their ugly heads in the past, hence the degradation of our economy, a better future will dawn on everyone — losers and winners alike in the elections. However, if in the campaign period the lure of corruption to try to buy votes takes precedence over the need for a clean poll, Zimbabwe’s enemies, some of whom are masquerading as our instant friends, like instant coffee, will go back to their native countries to tell the world that our elections were dubious. The proliferation of political parties to a number exceeding 100 should be seen as a sad commentary on the lack of political maturity in this country. Such a large number of political parties which has been put at 107 is certainly a misnomer in as far as multi-party democracy is concerned. It is certainly no exaggeration to suggest that those involved in the multiplicity of political organisations are not serious about democracy or the role that political parties must play in social, political and economic development. This is because where there is no political cohesion with everyone wanting to become president of the country, there can be no unity of purpose whatsoever in uplifting the lives of the masses, who after all matter the most. Leaders, among them President Emmerson Mnangagwa with the interest of the nation at heart have repeatedly made impassioned pleas for peace and harmony in the period before the elections and when the results are announced. Every Zimbabwean should therefore take the pleas seriously to maintain peace and tranquillity both of which will also translate to the character of the elections themselves. The police, who are guardians of the law, should never ever at any given time become prone to corruption by different political parties eager to take shortcuts to their desired ends. This means therefore that the strong arm of the law should reach out and punish anyone, whatever their stature in society is, who tries to use unorthodox means to a political end. What this suggests is that if the guardians of the law knuckle under any corrupt practices, their superiors will of necessity have to weigh in heavy-handedly to guard the guardians of the law. Surely there is no need to go to that extent and expense in ensuring that Zimbabweans boast a reputation for free, fair and plausible elections. Something else needs to be stated here that the proliferation of small political parties is probably being caused by Zimbabweans who believe that because of the high literacy rating on the African continent they also qualified to hold high political office. But intellectual wisdom and a functional literacy are not synonymous with political acumen. The saying that “too many cooks spoil the broth” should serve as ample advice against formation of run-of-the-mill political parties that believe that if so and so can be a leader they, too can also occupy high office in the land. The forthcoming harmonised elections should help to reinstate in its right position the revolution that re-united our people with their motherland but which has over the years been virtually ostracised from the hearts of some of those who lay claim to the leadership of our Zimbabwean nation. Politics, it should be realised by everybody, is not a picnic down a rose garden with rich pickings here and there. On the contrary, the vocation of politics requires people with broad robust shoulders that do not buckle under the weight of the demands by the masses which can be overwhelming to the frail-minded. Politics is serious business and those who espouse political leadership should be serious enough. 