Hwange Colliery Company Limited (HCCL) Fairness Moyana in Hwange HWANGE Colliery Company has adopted a new integrated business management system meant to enhance competitiveness on the global market while ensuring safe working conditions for its workers. Speaking during the 46th Kamandama Mine disaster commemorations here yesterday, acting managing director, Engineer Shepherd Manamike said the move has resulted in the training of employees with a thrust to merge ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018 to achieve Integrated Management Certification by July 2019. “As we share the memories of our loved ones, we should get comfort in the positive strides that the company has made in ensuring that this tragic event does not recur through a raft of measures including but not limited to safety promotion and behaviour change at the workplace,” he said. “As a company we have adopted the new management system, which comprehensively covers safety and environmental issues. Recently the integrated business management system project team convened a training with the major objective of training employees on the standards (ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018) so that they are merged in a bid to achieve IMS certification by July 2019. This Integrated Business Management System will not only make our workplace safer but also enhance our competitiveness on the global market.” Eng Manamike said since the adoption of the Quality Management System ISO 9001 in 2005 the company had experienced considerable improvement in business practice. The company has transformed itself into a Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) leader in the mining industry through various initiatives that include annually awarding its workers for observing safety. He said the company remained committed to assisting in the welfare of the 75 surviving widows and their families through various income generating projects. This year the company managed to reach its target of raising $20 000 through the Kamandama Memorial Golf tournament. The widows also received groceries, blankets, clothes and cooking wares as part of efforts by the company to meet their needs. The event is commemorated every 6 June in memory of the 427 workers who perished on the same day in 1972 when a methane gas explosion ripped through Kamandama shaft, killing them. Meanwhile speaking at the same event acting board chairperson, Mrs Juliana Muskwe assured the nation that there were adequate coal supplies going to Zimbabwe Power Company (ZPC) with the Colliery returning to profitability as exports of coke products increased. “Adequate supply of coal to the national electricity utility will remain a priority while supply of profitable coal and coke grades to industry and exports markets will ensure that the company operates profitably and meets its obligations in terms of the Scheme of Arrangement and monthly operating expenses,” said Muskwe. She said this was in line with the company’s thrust to increase production to more than 300 000 tonnes per month by the end of this month. This year’s commemorations were graced by a high powered Zanu- PF delegation led by Zimbabwe War Veterans’ Association (ZWVA) secretary general, Cde Victor Matemadanda, chiefs, captains of industry, Government officials, workers, service chiefs and union representatives among others.