 Sylvester Chiramba, Court Reporter A MAN who stole cash and property worth over $5 000 mostly from churches in Bulawayo has been sentenced to nearly 12 years in prison. Innocent Ncube (37) from Umguza district went on a house-breaking spree from May 1 this year. He broke into locked premises and vehicles, stealing groceries, clothes and electrical appliances. Ncube broke into a Roman Catholic Church in Nketa 7 and stole property valued at $2 400. The property included groceries, electric gadgets and some bottles of altar wine. He returned to the same church on May 23 and stole $130 worth of donated clothes. He also broke into Oneness Pentecostal Church in Nketa 6, Seventh Day Adventist Church in Nkulumane and Christ Ambassadors Church in Nketa and stole some PC systems, groceries and clothes. Ncube also targeted a parked truck and a dental surgery. He pleaded guilty to seven of the eight counts of unlawful entry he was charged with when he appeared before Western Commonage magistrate Mr Stephen Ndhlovu. Mr Ndhlovu found him guilty on all the counts and sentenced him to 20 months in prison for every count. “From the 140 months, ten are suspended for five years on condition that the accused person does not commit a similar offence,” said Mr Ndhlovu “Another 20 months will be suspended on condition that the accused person pays restitution to the complainants.” Ncube will serve an effective nine years in prison. Prosecuting Ms Margaret Takawira said on May 1, Ncube broke into a Government dental care surgery in Nketa 7 and stole a 32 inch flat screen TV and a two plate stove. “On May 8 and May 23, Ncube broke into a Roman Catholic Church in Nketa and stole property worth more than $2 500 and on May 22 he broke a toilet window and gained access into a Seventh Day Adventist Church and stole a full set of a PC system,” said Ms Takawira. “Also on May 23, Ncube broke into Hasani Gayihayi’s truck and stole a car battery and a hydraulic jack. On Saturday he broke into Oneness Pentecostal church and stole 11 electric wall plugs and a 250 AHMS electricity circuit breaker.” The court heard how Ncube was caught red handed trying to steal at a Christ Ambassadors Church on May 27 but he managed to escape. Also on May 27, he was seen carrying a stolen car battery and a police report was made leading to his arrest. @SlyCee10