Kwanele Sibanda, the alleged cocaine mastermind Codelia Mondela, Court Reporter A SOUTH African woman suspected to be the mastermind of a cocaine peddling ring and who allegedly sent a Bulawayo woman to collect 3,14kg of cocaine from the Main Post Office has approached a court seeking bail pending her trial. Kwanele Sibanda (26) from Johannesburg is alleged to have contacted Tholiwe Sheron Tshuma (25) of Emganwini suburb to collect 3,14kg of cocaine on her behalf while she was in South Africa. Sibanda and Tshuma are facing the same charge of dealing in dangerous drugs. They appeared separately before magistrate Adelaide Mbeure. Sibanda’s trial is set to kick off on June 28 while Tshuma’s trial will start on June 18. Tshuma is out on $500 bail. Sibanda, who initially appeared as a self actor, is now being represented by Mr Bob Siansole of Tanaka Law Chambers. The State through Ms Clarence Moyo, the investigating officer, opposed bail for three reasons. Ms Moyo said Sibanda would interfere with witnesses, abscond court and had no fixed place of residence in Zimbabwe where she would stay until the matter was finalised. Mr Siansole said there was a change in circumstances and they were seeking bail since Sibanda had no legal representation before. He said Sibanda deserved to be granted bail as it was her constitutional right and she was to be presumed innocent until proven guilty. “It is false that Sibanda is of no fixed abode as she resides at Emganwini suburb. The State should not merely claim that she will abscond with no tangible reasons. The defence hereby prays that she be admitted to bail,” he said. “May she be allowed to deposit $200 bail, to reside at Emganwini till the matter is finalised, report to the police three times a week and not to interfere with witnesses and investigations.” The magistrate remanded the matter to next Tuesday for bail ruling. Prosecuting, Mr Maclean Ndlovu said on April 11 this year, Sibanda contacted Tshuma and asked her to collect the cocaine on her behalf. “Sibanda phoned Tshuma and told her to collect 3,14kg of cocaine from Bulawayo Post Office and forward it to South Africa where she would receive it,” the prosecutor said. The court heard that Tshuma was stopped and searched by detectives and was found in possession of cocaine weighing 3,14kg with a street value of $314 300. — @MondelaC