Cassper Nyovest Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent MAYBE South African rapper, Cassper Nyovest, was right after all for questioning the credibility of the South African Music Awards (Samas) and actually calling them trash. So a song — Tigi by Sands — that was a love anthem in the SADC region and beyond, will not be recognised at the 24th edition of the awards tonight as it was scrapped off at the last hour after being nominated. Tigi is by far a runaway hit and was rightfully nominated in the Record of the Year category but alas, the Recording Industry of South Africa (RiSA) struck it off the nominees list. This was also done to Lake by the Ocean by Mobi Dixon which was up for Best Remix. The reason being that Sands is a citizen of eSwatini (formerly Swaziland) and as such had to be excluded from being considered for a Sama. For Mobi Dixon, they said his track was a remix of an international song which is in contravention of the Sama rules. It’s intriguing to note that Sands, who is based in South Africa, had never hidden that he was from eSwatini in any of his interviews or even on his online biography. Now, how can such a glaring oversight happen? Others on social media said the decision by Samas bordered on xenophobia. “SA has a long way to go. There’re so many Africans going overseas to get awards in countries that are not even theirs. Yes, the guy is not from here, but his song was a hit in SA. Why not recognise him? “Is this being xenophobic or what? This is sad Africa,” posted a Twitter user, @heryaCj7 in the comments section of the SAMA announcement of the developments. Commented Cassper: “How credible are the Samas? These are the kind of conversations we need to have. Why are some categories voted for by the people? I have so many questions that haven’t been answered. “For me it was like I can’t submit at the Samas every year when I don’t understand certain things and you have questions and no one has ever answered us. So when I thought about it, for me it was like I don’t really need the Samas. They don’t take me anywhere. They’re here in South Africa and people in South Africa know me and love me regardless of whether I win or not.” Another user pointed out that it was unfair for Mobi Dixon to be scrapped from the nominees’ list as DJ Sbu won the Sama song of the year with track Remember When It Rains in 2011, but it was a remix of a song by Josh Groban. Chief operating officer (COO) at RiSA and the Samas office, Thobela Dlamini, responded to IOL saying: “Maybe by that time, the rules didn’t say what we’re saying now. We change the rules time and time again, so we can craft this thing to make sense.” Also of interest is that one of the nominees, Tresor, is from the DRC. The hip-hop artiste, who is based in Mzansi, is nominated in the Male Artiste of the Year category, but he seemed to have been overlooked as he falls in the same predicament as Sands, unless he has become a citizen of Mzansi. What this means is that people like Bekezela Nkomo, who is from Zimbabwe, but is based in Mzansi and has a love ballad — Bekezela — that is cherished by many in the neighbouring country, will not be recognised there no matter how hard he tries. What is saddening is the fact that the track is more popular there than here. The only solace for Bekezela will be getting recognition from his home country. Fortunately, he has been awarded by the Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards and Skyz Metro FM awards. Many artists follow the SA music industry and make it their benchmark when producing tracks so it’s only fair that the powers that be realise that it’s no longer business as usual. Meanwhile, the stage is set for the awards ceremony taking place at the Sun City where legendary South African musicians Steve Kekana, Mbongeni Ngema and Spokes H will be honoured with Lifetime Achievement awards. Lady Zamar flies the dance flag with two nominations for My Baby and Love is Blind. Kwesta holds it down for hip-hop with his two hits Spirit featuring Wale and Ngiyazifela Ngawe featuring Thabsie. TV and radio personality Somizi “SomG” Mhlongo is set to host the Samas for a record third-time after delivering unforgettable shows twice before. He has however, revealed that he will be hosting the awards for the last time.