Bulawayo police spokesperson Inspector Precious Simango Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter POLICE in Bulawayo have warned motorists and members of the public against violating traffic rules and regulations as well as engaging in corrupt practices. In a statement yesterday, Bulawayo provincial police spokesperson, Inspector Precious Simango said they had noted with concern the “deplorable behaviour” of motorists particularly in the Central Business District (CBD). “The behaviour and attitude exhibited by public transport operators and some private motorists can’t go unchecked. We’ve of late been experiencing an increase in avoidable traffic accidents, with some leading to unnecessary loss of lives or serious injuries and damages. “It’s in this vein that everyone is called upon to cooperate with the police and comply with orders. We strongly warn members of the public against making any attempts to bribe our officers on duty as this is an offence. On average the CBD records 378 accidents monthly and this is unacceptable,” said Insp Simango. She said motorists have developed a tendency of driving through red traffic lights, driving against one way roads, parking in the middle of the roads while doing their businesses and even ignoring danger warning signs such as stop signs and zebra crossings. “Driving unregistered vehicles, unroadworthy vehicles and driving while unlicensed to drive are some of the prevalent offences in the city centre that need to stop forthwith. “Police are conducting campaigns warning the motoring public against this wayward behaviour that threatens to reduce the once respectable city into anarchy. We’ve also partnered with the Bulawayo City Council traffic department, the Vehicle Inspection Department (VID) and Zinara, to bring order in the city,” said Insp Simango. She said police were mandated by section 219 of the constitution to maintain law and order, which includes ensuring sanity on the roads. “As the police we therefore seek to indiscriminately discharge our duties as provided for in the constitution. Members of the public are therefore warned against boarding vehicles at undesignated areas as such behaviour attracts a penalty of $5. “Once a person pays such a fine on three occasions, they will be taken to court where a custodial sentence may be given,” said Insp Simango. She said motorists found parked in the middle of the road will attract a fine of $10 and repeat offenders risk being taken to court for stiffer penalties. Insp Simango said so far more than 100 vehicles have been impounded for various offences and will be subjected to rigorous screening processes by the city council, VID, the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) vehicle theft squad and Zinara. —  @pamelashumba1