 Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A MAN from Gwanda was yesterday stabbed to death allegedly by his friend in a fight over a prostitute. Matabeleland South provincial police spokesperson Inspector Philisani Ndebele confirmed the incident which occurred at Club 626 at around 1AM. He said Obadiah Dube (40) of Garanyemba was drinking with his friend when they had a misunderstanding as they wanted the services of the same sex worker. Insp Ndebele said Dube was in police custody following his arrest for allegedly fatally stabbing his friend. The deceased’s name has been withheld as his next of kin have not been advised. “I can confirm that we are investigating a matter where a man was stabbed to death in a fight over a woman at Club 626 in Gwanda yesterday at around 1AM. The suspect Obadiah Dube stabbed the now deceased with a knife in his back and he fell to the ground and died on the spot. The matter was reported to the police who attended the scene. Dube has been arrested and investigations are underway,” he said. Insp Ndebele said it was disturbing that they continue to receive reports involving the use of dangerous weapons when police recently issued a prohibition order against the carrying of such weapons. He appealed to members of the public to respect the sanctity of human life and resolve disputes amicably. “We continue to urge people to desist from violence as they should solve their disputes amicably. A lot of lives are being lost over petty issues.” A source who preferred anonymity said the now deceased approached the sex worker, Ms Miriam Chalibe (25), while in the company of Dube and asked for her services but she refused as he stayed in Matshetshe area which is a long distance from Gwanda Town. The source said the now deceased later left the bar leaving Dube behind. Dube asked the sex worker for her services. “Miriam refused to entertain Dube saying she was afraid of the now deceased since he had approached her first and she had turned him down. Dube insisted and told Miriam to follow him outside. “As they left, the now deceased who had returned saw them. He followed and stood between them facing Miriam demanding to know what they were doing together. An argument ensued and Dube pulled out a knife and stabbed the now deceased in the back,” said the source. Police recently raised concern over the increasing number of murder cases in Gwanda.