Mr Utoile Silaigwana Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent MORE than 1 000 local observers were accredited for the country’s pre-election season to assess the Biometric Voter Registration and Voters Roll Inspection, the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission said yesterday. The electoral body said it was yet to accredit observers to monitor the actual casting of votes. The country will hold harmonised elections on July 30. Responding to questions from The Chronicle, Zec acting chief elections officer Mr Utoile Silaigwana said more than 1 035 local observers were accredited for the voter registration and inspection programme. “The commission accredited 41 observers during the inspection exercise and the 994 observers accredited during the Biometric Voter Registration exercise were also free to observe the inspection exercise,” said Mr Silaigwana. Most local observers were involved in motivating the electorate to register as voters. Their activities included organising voter registration campaigns which include road shows and music concerts. One of the local observers noted that while Zanu-PF was visible on the ground, opposition parties were lacking due to squabbles. Mr Silaigwana said Zec was yet to invite local election observers for the actual elections. “We have not yet started to accredit those who are going to observe the elections. It’s a new exercise all together. We are going to call for the accreditation of these observers through the Press. We are infact going to advertise,” he said. Zec has promised to deliver a free, fair and credible election saying its system was tamper proof and rigging was out of the question. President Emmerson Mnangagwa has also reiterated the need for the country to have undisputed polls. His Government assured the nation and the international community that the country will hold free, fair and credible elections. Government has invited international observers to observe this year’s elections. President Mnangagwa said holding of free, fair and credible elections will be important for his Government’s re-engagement with the international community. International and continental bodies have so far expressed satisfaction with the country’s election road map. — @nqotshili