President Mnangagwa in Gwanda Tendai Mugabe recently in GWANDA President Mnangagwa says his new administration is a servant leadership which places the wishes and aspirations of the people at the centre of its programmes as it seeks to transform people’s lives by attaining a middle-income economy by 2030. He said his Government respects the people as they were the source of power and will do everything to enhance their lives. President Mnangagwa said this while addressing an overflowing crowd at Phelandaba Stadium during a campaign rally ahead of the July 30 general elections on Friday. In his address which largely focused on economic issues, President Mnangagwa said his administration was a product of the expression of people’s power on November 18 when they thronged the streets of Harare demanding a new order in the country. He said the unity of purpose displayed by Zimbabweans on November 18, 2017 should be the hallmark of a new Zimbabwe under his stewardship. “The voice of the people is the voice of God,” said President Mnangagwa. “It was your voice which created this new dispensation on 24th November last year. What do we expect this new dispensation to do differently? What are the aspirations (of the people)? What do the people want? Are we going to fulfill them or not? Firstly we agreed in the new dispensation that we are a servant leadership. We are the servants of the people. “I am a servant leader. I am listening leader. All my colleagues are listening leaders. If you see these people at top table not doing what they should do tell me because the power they enjoy comes from you. You are the power and these are the products of your power. If a product disregards the source of power that product must be thrown away. This is the new approach of the new dispensation.” Added President Mnangagwa amid a reverberating applause from the crowd: “We are now saying whatever good by the party, by (the) Government in the past, every good that we did as Zanu-PF, every good that we did in the last republic it is a good lesson we must carry forward but everything that we regard was not good we leave behind. We must speak of unity, we must now speak of love, and we must now speak of development. “We must now work on the task of creating wealth for our people. We want our people to have a better life. “We want every single family to have food on their tables. How do we do it? We do this by voting into power a party, a political party that has a history of the wishes of the people, a party that has liberated the people from colonialism and which is that party? It is Zanu-PF and who are we? We are Zanu-PF so we are in the correct party and we are the correct people. We are the people who must take this country forward and nobody else. “Others can come and shout and bark but Zanu-PF  will continue to be in power.” The rally was attended by the Zanu-PF top leadership including the President’s two deputies Dr Constantino Chiwenga and Cde Kembo Mohadi, Zanu-PF national chairman Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri and several Politburo members.