Perfect Chikwende Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter BULAWAYO Chiefs’ good performances against big clubs in their debut Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season could spell doom for the club, with reports that most of their players could seek greener pastures. Chiefs’ posted big results in the first half of the season and claimed the scalps of log leaders FC Platinum (2-0), Ngezi Platinum Stars (1-0) and Highlanders (1-0). The league debutants also gave Harare giants Caps United a scare when they shared the spoils in a 2-2 draw. Dynamos were the only traditional giants to beat Chiefs, edging them 1-0. Sources told Chronicle Sport that a number of Premiership clubs have been trying to entice Chiefs players to join them when the mid-season transfer window opens on Monday. Chiefs have reportedly lost central defender Last Sithole to Chicken Inn. There are reports linking the duo of goalkeeper Kelvin Nyoni and central defender Polite Moyo with moves to relegation threatened Bulawayo City, while exciting attacking midfielder Perfect Chikwende and striker Farau Matare are said to have attracted interest from Chicken Inn. The sources revealed that holding midfielder Brighton Manhire is close to sealing a move to South African First Division side Mbombela United. “Chiefs coaches are fretting about which players will be available for the second half of the season. It is becoming clear that they might lose a number of players than they had anticipated. Sithole terminated his contract last week and asked for his clearance with indications that he is headed for Chicken Inn. Manhire left for South Africa last week to attend trials at Mbombela United,” said the source. “What has made Chiefs’ situation even tricky is that some clubs are aware that the players are owed substantial amounts and they are trying to bargain by getting those players from Chiefs for free. How the Chiefs executive manages to stop the exodus will be interesting.” Other players that have been vital cogs at Chiefs and could easily walk into most teams include right-back Malvin Mkolo, Zimbabwe youth international left-back Shadreck Nyahwa, central midfielder Gracious Muleya and Takunda Muzuva as well as the attacking midfield trio of Lucky Ndlela, Clement Makamba and Eddie Chidavaenzi. Chiefs are four points above relegation with 18 points from 17 games. Thulani Sibanda, a Scottish C Licence holder who is also a Sports Science graduate, has been drilling Chiefs since guiding them to the Premiership last season. He is credited with producing unheralded players that are now being highly sought after. Sibanda also holds a Caf B coaching licence and also doubles up as Chiefs’ technical analyst and fitness coach. Chiefs’ chairman James Rugwevera said: “We’ve heard rumours that some clubs are after our players and we would like to advise those interested in our players to come through the club. It is not proper to approach contracted players without our clearance. We will soon meet the coaches who will brief us on the players that they want to beef up the squad and those we will be releasing.” — @ZililoR