Tendai Ndoro Harare Bureau RELEGATED Ajax Cape Town have parted ways with Zimbabwe international forward, Tendai Ndoro, ahead of the new season which begins in August. According to a statement released by the South African club yesterday, they decided against renewing his contract. “Ndoro’s contract was up for renewal at the end of this month, however, the club have opted not to extend his stay at Ikamva. “The club would like to wish Tendai all the best in his future endeavours and thank him for his services over the past six months,” read the statement. Ndoro joined the Cape Town club in January following his return from a spell in Saudi Arabia. But the move to Ikamva spelled trouble for the club as they were found guilty of using an ineligible player, who had played for three clubs, in one season. This resulted in points being docked off Ajax Cape and they lost their Premiership status. Recently, the former Orlando Pirates striker hogged the limelight for the wrong reasons after he was arrested for assaulting his South African wife. Ajax Cape Town, who appear to be parting ways with a number of players, also released former FC Platinum defender, Gerald Takwara. The Warriors midfielder only joined the club during the January transfer window but finds himself club-hunting again. The Urban Warriors have now set their sights on 19-year-old Bulawayo City striker Clive Rupiya by inviting the teenager forward for a two-week trial period. Yesterday, Rupiya said he is going back to Cape Town for another assessment. “The trials were okay but we didn’t do much. The coach, though, managed to assess what he wanted and I feel my chances of getting a contract are high,” he said. His manager Calvin “Currypie” Nyazema is also optimistic that the player, who burst onto the Premiership scene last season as one of the best rookie players, will secure a contract. “Mushin (Ertugral) is a good but tough coach, asking him to come back is a good sign. The coach liked what he saw initially, so he wants more time with the boy,” he said. Nyazema believes it’s not a wrong move for the young player to pursue a career in Division One. “The Ajax concept, set-up and the coach haven’t changed and I believe they will be fighting to come right back up.” “It would be nice for him to be a part of that fight. Look at Highlands Park,” said Nyazema. Rupiya’s father, Godfrey, played for Lanchashire, Douglas Warriors and Mwana Africa. Last year, former Bulawayo City coach Mandla Mpofu said the striker had great potential. “I have to compare him with Khama Billiat because he has the potential to reach that level and even do better. “He is a complete package. He can play with both legs, he is very good in the air and is technically gifted. “In fact it’s not every day that we get an 18-year-old scoring a brace against a team like Dynamos. It’s not that easy. I’m sure this boy will go far if he keeps his head down,’’ said Mpofu.