 Zvamaida Murwira, Harare Bureau Parliament yesterday expelled three Zanu-PF legislators after the ruling party notified the august House that they no longer represented its interests. Speaker of the National Assembly Advocate Jacob Mudenda told Parliament of the expulsion of Cdes Beata Nyamupinga (Goromonzi West), Masango Matambanadzo (Kwekwe Central) and Dr Godfrey Gandawa (Magunje.) He said recalling the trio was consistent with Section 129 (1)(k) of the Constitution of Zimbabwe. The section reads: “The seat of a Member of Parliament becomes vacant if the member has ceased to belong to the political party of which he or she was a member when elected to Parliament and the political party concerned, by written notice to the Speaker or the president of the Senate, as the case may be, has declared that the member has ceased to belong to it.” Dr Gandawa was not in the chamber when Adv Mudenda read out the letter while Cdes Nyamupinga and Matambanadzo appeared surprised by the turn of events as they sat attentively during the announcement. Soon after, Cde Matambanadzo requested for the floor to air his parting shot where he thanked Adv Mudenda for his guidance. “I would want to thank you for the time that I have served this Parliament. I also want to thank you Hon Speaker Sir for your guidance and wise counsel you gave us. I regard you as one of the best Speakers I have had,” said Cde Matambanadzo. He later shook hands with fellow legislators from both Zanu-PF and MDC-T before walking out. Zanu-PF resolved to recall the three MPs at its Politburo meeting held on Wednesday evening. The party’s Secretary for Information and Publicity, Cde Simon Khaya Moyo told journalists: “The Politburo has endorsed the recall of these legislators from Parliament. A letter has been written to the Speaker of the National Assembly (Advocate Jacob Mudenda) to notify him of the recalling.” Although Cde Khaya Moyo did not specify the charges, the trio were barred from participating in just ended primary elections because of pending disciplinary issues. Cde Matambanadzo reportedly attended a National People’s Party led by Brigadier General Ambrose Mutinhiri (Retired) last weekend where he announced he would be contesting Kwekwe Central on an NPF ticket in the July 30 harmonised elections. Zanu-PF Midlands province had written to the national disciplinary committee recommending the suspension of Cde Matambanadzo from the party for alleged insubordination and creating parallel structures. Cde Khaya Moyo also said the Politburo had also decided there would be no more re-runs of primary elections. “The Politburo endorsed the results of the recently held re-runs and they remain final. There are no more re-runs. We must go flat out to campaign,” said Cde Khaya Moyo.