Mr Sifiso Moyo Whinsley Masara, Business Reporter SUTA-SUTA Construction is one of the few companies in Bulawayo, which have withstood economic difficulties. Its owner and founding managing director, Mr Sifiso Moyo, is a local citizen-based in Pumula South suburb whose story has become an inspiration to many. He recently added a notch to his profile when he scooped the second runner up prize under the category of Businessman of the Year award in the 2017 Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce (ZNCC) annual business awards for Matabeleland region. The awards ceremony had 22 categories and were held in Bulawayo under the theme, “Steering Zimbabwe Towards Enterprise Development, Corporate Entrepreneurship and Sustainable growth”. Mr Moyo is a former illegal gold panner who has managed to empower himself to be among the country’s successful business persons. He says he used proceeds from gold mining to start his transport business. At present he owns a fleet of 10 trucks which are hired to ferry products such as coal, grain and many other such products. The company now employs 23 workers, mainly youths and there are plans to increase the number to 30. Suta-Suta Construction is a major supplier of aggregate stones to six provinces across the country. The firm has also landed contracts with Government departments among other clients. Mr Moyo said he was delighted to scoop the award, a first for him saying he is now recognised among reputable business people in the region. “It’s unbelievable to rise from being an illegal gold panner to be recognised among top business persons in the region. I’m humbled and I urge especially youths to work harder, continue to empower themselves as the sky is the limit,” he said. Suta-Suta Construction started as a supplier of construction and mining equipment, borehole drilling, excavators, front loader, grader, 20-30 tonne tipper trucks, flat truckers and dozer in 2014. The company has also had contracts with rural districts councils and city councils within the region. Since 2016 to-date Suta-Suta Construction has been among the major contractors for the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure Development. While his company is mainly supplying aggregate stones for road construction, his vision is to mine the stones and supply them. “I have been in this industry for more than six years and my vision is to venture into actual mining of these stones rather than just supplying them,” said Mr Moyo. He said he was inspired by President Mnangagwa’s focus on transforming the economy under the: “Zimbabwe is open for business” mantra, which he said was encouraging the citizens to empower themselves and participate in mainstream economy. @winnie_masara