 Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A MAN from Esigodini is battling for life at the United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) after he was attacked with an empty beer bottle and struck several times with a machete during a fight over a woman. Mr Matthew Nsingo (27), a worker at Midas Mine in Esigodini, was struck by a man only identified as Bishop Santos with an empty beer bottle once on the face before he was hacked several times oin the head and shoulders with a machete. Police said the suspect, who comes from Gokwe and is being charged with attempted murder, is on the run. The incident occurred at around 10PM on Friday at Lense Bottle Store, Ntabenende area in Esigodini. Matabeleland South acting police spokesperson, Assistant Inspector Joram Sithole, yesterday said investigations into the case were in progress. “I can confirm we received a case of attempted murder which occurred on Friday at Lense Bottle Store in Esigodini. “Police are hunting for a man who struck another with an empty bottle of beer before he went on to strike him several times with a machete during a misunderstanding. The injured man is admitted in hospital while the suspect is at large,” he said. Asst Insp Sithole warned members of the public against violence. He said engagement of third parties such as police, church elders and community leaders is important when in disputes. “People should learn to resolve disputes amicably without resorting to violence as violence results in unnecessary loss of lives and injuries.” A patron who preferred anonymity said Mr Nsingo was sent by a friend only known as Mpintshi to call his girlfriend who was inside the bar. “The woman refused to get out of the bar stating that it was still too early for them to go home as she was still having fun. As Matthew tried to convince her, attempting to drag her out of the bar, Bishop angrily confronted him ordering him to leave the woman alone. He said he should stop bothering her and leave her to have fun with them. “A misunderstanding arose between the two and Bishop hit Matthew on the face with an empty bottle of beer. He grabbed a machete that lay next to his seat and struck Matthew four times on the head and shoulder,” said the source. @winnie_masara