A collapsed mine shaft Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A MINER died while another was hospitalised with injuries after a shaft collapsed on them at Turk Mine in Bubi District yesterday. The incident occurred at around 1AM at the mine situated about 40km north of Bulawayo. Sources at the mine said Dumisani Moyo from Fincham area died a few minutes after he was retrieved by the Mine Rescue Team. Matthew Mthethwa from Mahlabathini village, under chief Mtshana, who escaped with minor injuries, was taken to Inyathi District Hospital for treatment. The mine manager, Mr Bhekizulu Khumalo, confirmed the incident. “One person died after he had been retrieved. I can’t comment on the other person’s injuries. As you can hear there is a lot of noise, I am actually working somewhere in the bush and can’t say much to you at the moment,” said Mr Khumalo. Turk Mine workers said the shaft collapsed while the two were working in it and two others waited for them outside. “There were two guys working in the shaft when it collapsed. Moyo fell into a crate and was buried by ore, resulting in him suffocating. He was pronounced dead after retrieval while his partner managed to escape with minor injuries and was taken to Inyathi District Hospital for treatment,” said a worker. Ward 22 councillor Mr Francis Zondo urged mines to ensure maximum security for their employees to avoid loss of lives. “It’s sad to continue losing lives in almost the same manner. Mines should do regular inspections of their sites to avoid unnecessary loss of lives. “Mining is the major source of livelihood for our sons and brothers in this area but thorough safety measures should be taken to reduce accidents,” he said. Cllr Zondo encouraged mines to also improve working conditions and the welfare of employees. Bubi Rural district Council chief executive officer Mr Patson Mlilo said: “It’s sad news coming so soon while we are still mourning the other seven miners that perished at Old Motapa Mine. We encourage all in the mining sector to prioritise safety and health matters.” @winnie_masara