Admire Mbuso also known as Simbarashe Shumba Codelia Mondela, Court Reporter A PROPHET at Grace of Africa Church in Bulawayo who allegedly stole R76 000 from his live-in girlfriend has appeared in court for theft. Admire Mbuso (35), who had introduced himself as Simbarashe Shumba from Gweru to Ms Silvia Moyo (42), allegedly left her at a church service and went to her home to steal the money which was under a bed on Sunday. Mbuso was not asked to plead to theft before Bulawayo magistrate Ms Adelaide Mbeure. The magistrate granted him $100 bail and remanded the matter to June 7 after Mbuso said he wanted a lawyer to represent him. Prosecuting, Mr Taurai Hondoyemoto said Ms Moyo discovered that Mbuso had vanished before the end of the service and she tried to call him to no avail. “While at church, Mbuso sneaked into a friend’s car, leaving Ms Moyo and went back home where he stole R76 000 and $200 under the bed before locking the house,” he said. Mr Hondoyemoto said Mbuso’s friend gave him a lift to Harare Road where he hiked for transport and went to his rural home in Gweru. “Ms Moyo discovered the offence when she got home. A follow up was made and Mbuso was arrested at his rural home and a total of R50 690, $486 bond notes and $121 was recovered,” the prosecutor said. “It was also discovered that he had bought a Mazda Atenza for R36 500 with part of the money.” On Wednesday, Ms Moyo said Mbuso told her that he was a prophet and a soldier stationed at Mbalabala but to her surprise she never saw any uniforms after he moved in with her. Ms Moyo also told the court that on the day Mbuso allegedly stole the money, he had insisted on the two  going to church, only to disappear halfway through the service. “On Sunday I did not feel like going to church but Shumba (as he was known to her) insisted that we attend. I later realised he had disappeared and when I tried to call him his cell-phone had been switched off,” said Ms Moyo. “It just struck me that Shumba might have gone back home to steal my brother in-law’s money which I  had been given  for safe keeping on Friday in his presence. He also took R700 and $20 meant for domestic use and left me penniless.” — @MondelaC