 Nqobile Tshili,Chronicle Correspondent ZANU-PF Bulawayo province is set to hold healing and reconciliation meetings in the province to be addressed by senior party members tomorrow. The meetings are aimed at promoting unity ahead of harmonised elections and to ensure that members who backed different candidates during primary polls work together. The party recently held a similar workshop for its winning and losing candidates in Harare which was addressed by President Mnangagwa and his deputies Cde Kembo Mohadi and Dr Constantino Chiwenga. During the meeting, President Mnangagwa, who is the party’s First Secretary, called for unity among the party members and said primary elections were part of the party’s internal democracy. He said there were no losers and winners in the primary elections as they all represented Zanu-PF. In a press briefing on Thursday, Zanu-PF Bulawayo provincial Secretary for Administration Cde Elifasi Mashaba said the party would hold the meetings to spread the President’s message. “This is a follow up to the President’s message with winning and losing candidates in Harare after primary elections. Now the leadership is descending to the grassroots supporters spreading the same message,” he said. Cde Mashaba said the leadership would get the party supporters into election mode. “This is the election season and we are ready to intensify our campaigns. We urge all the supporters to attend the meetings so that the party can be better prepared ahead of the elections,” said Cde Mashaba. He said the meetings would be held at the party’s district centres starting concurrently at 10AM. Cde Mashaba said Dr Obert Mpofu would address Area 1 meeting at Davies Hall, Cde Mabel Chinomona in Area 2 (Magwegwe sub office), Cde David Parirenyatwa Area 3 (Njube police grounds), Retired Colonel George Nare Area 4 (Tshabalala sub office) while in Area 5, the meeting will be held at the war veterans stand at Nketa 6 shops. Meanwhile, Cde Mashaba — who is contesting the Nketa National Assembly seat — said he will be commemorating the Day of the African Child today in his constituency at Nketa grounds. He said the commemorations are meant to provide a platform for him to interact with youths. Cde Mashaba has lined up several events: a music concert, a talent identification show, career guidance, among others. — @nqotshili