 Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter A BEITBRIDGE man who killed a fellow imbiber with a stone weighing more than 2kg during a beer drinking fight, was yesterday sentenced to an effective 12 years in jail. Life Mulaudzi (22) of Makakavhule village under Chief Sitauze area was convicted of murder with constructive intent by Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Thompson James Mabhikwa in connection with the death of Fred Mashele (23). In passing sentence, Justice Mabhikwa expressed concern over an increase in the number of violence-related murder cases involving youths. “It is quite disturbing that young people are engaging in violence over petty issues. The accused person stands convicted of a very serious offence and what is also a disturbing factor is that the accused person disregarded and disrespected the sanctity of human life when he killed the deceased over a petty issue, that is a hat,” he said. The judge condemned acts of violence, saying the courts have a duty to protect the sanctity of life through passing deterrent sentences. “A young life was unnecessarily lost over a petty issue. The courts will not condone such conduct and a clear message has to be sent out there that life is precious. Accordingly, the accused is sentenced to 12 years imprisonment,” ruled Justice Mabhikwa. Prosecuting, Ms Nokuthaba Ngwenya said on September 10 in 2016 at around 10PM, Delelani Mashele was at a shop veranda at Lutumba Business Centre listening to music when Mulaudzi allegedly snatched his hat before he fled into a nearby nightclub to join his friends who were drinking beer there. The court heard that Delelani followed the accused person. “On arrival at the nightclub, Delelani demanded his hat back from the accused person who, however, denied taking it,” said Ms Ngwenya. The deceased, who was Delelani’s younger brother and his two friends, later arrived at the nightclub. Delelani reported the matter to the trio and the deceased confronted the accused person during which a scuffle ensued between the two men. “The deceased grabbed the accused person by the collar and threatened to assault him if he refused to release the hat,” said Ms Ngwenya. Mulaudzi managed to free himself from Fred’s grip. He then picked up a stone and struck Fred once on the head. Soon after committing the offence, Mulaudzi ran away with Fred and his colleagues in hot pursuit. They caught up with Mulaudzi and apprehended him before taking him to the police. Fred was taken to Beitbridge District Hospital before he was transferred to Mpilo Central Hospital where he later succumbed to the injuries. Mr Thulani Ndlovu of Sansole and Senda Legal Practitioners represented Mulaudzi. @mashnets