 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter STRIKERS in the Zifa Southern Region Division One League are seemingly suffering from the Premiership syndrome of lack of potency. The leading scorer in the Castle Lager Premiership is Ngezi Platinum Stars’ Terence Dzukamanja with eight goals from 15 games. As the Southern Region Division One League heads into Week 10, its leading scorers have five goals. Defensive midfielder Tinashe Mthimkhulu, who is on loan at Tsholotsho from Chicken Inn, is joint top scorer with Talen Vision forward Ossie Miniru. Strikers on four goals are of Talen Vision’s Grey Kufandada, Tatenda Ushe of Moto Moto and Makomo’s Morgan Mungombe. Sports analyst Bekithemba Sibanda said lack of lethal strikers is a “nationwide” problem. “People come to the stadium not only to see good football, but goals. The game has become too technical and at the end of the day it gets boring such that even talented players don’t explode,” said Sibanda. “I think Zenzo Moyo (former Warriors and Highlanders’ striker) summed it up well when he said the problem is with club administrators, who are putting pressure on coaches. Maybe if coaches could allow players to freely express themselves, we might start seeing goals,” Sibanda said. He also noted that First Division football has also been turned to a “kick and go” contest. “Very few teams in Division One play entertaining football that starts with building from the back or other variations that make watching the game exciting. There’s too much power play in Division One as well as some PSL teams. That’s why you find either too many draws or slim wins,” said Sibanda. Five games in the Southern Region Division One produced 0-0 draws this past weekend. Only  three goals were scored in Bosso 90’s 2-1 win over Tsholotsho. Six other goals recorded at the weekend were via the “boardroom” due to walkovers. ZRP Bulawayo were walked over by Victoria Falls side Mosi Rovers, while Indlovu Iyanyathela were also blessed with three points on a 3-0 score line after Casmyn failed to turn up for their encounter. Meanwhile, joint winners of the Nokel Security Southern Region Division One Top Goal Scorer of the Month for May, Dube and Ushe, will be presented with their awards at their next home games. The duo struck three goals each. @ZililoR