A view of the Hwange town Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls GOVERNMENT has started rolling out free screening for diabetes, HIV and Tuberculosis in Hwange district. The targeted screening is part of the National TB programme in partnership with Global Fund, USAID, the International Union against Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases (The Union) and Family Aids Caring Trust (Fact) which is the implementing partner. The exercise is targeting people living with HIV and Aids, diabetes, those in mining communities, congregated setting, people in contact with TB clients, health care workers and all age groups. Hwange district has been identified as one of the high burden districts and mobile screening started on Monday and will end on Friday next week. A total of 346 Victoria Falls residents were screened on Monday and Tuesday at Chinotimba Clinic. Fifteen new TB cases were detected and the patients made up of seven females and eight males were immediately put on medication. Only one case of diabetes was detected while none tested positive to HIV according to statistics availed yesterday. Hwange District Medical Officer Dr Wisdom Kurauone said they were using X-Ray screening which has proved to be effective and sensitive compared to the sputum method. “This is a programme aimed at eliminating TB in Zimbabwe. TB burden has increased over the last few years  and as such some people are dying before being diagnosed. “We really need to move on and screen people. We are happy with the high numbers coming for screening which confirms that people are now aware of the dangers of TB and the implications of late treatment. “Interventions and medicine are there so people should not die as a result of TB. People with TB  should be put on treatment so that they do not spread the TB in the communities,” he said. Mrs Elina Ndlovu (48) of Chinotimba suburb said she was glad to have been screened for the three diseases. Another resident, Mrs Misozi Dube said: “This was a rare opportunity to get tested for the three diseases at once free of charge considering that we can’t afford to pay for such screening at hospitals.” Hwange district is the second to be covered this year after Umguza also in Matabeleland North province. The screening team will be at Nompumelelo Centre in Ndlovu, Jambezi Grounds and Msuna from yesterday to today. It will be in Hwange town from tomorrow to Tuesday before moving to Lukosi, Dete and Lupote between Wednesday and Friday next week. – @ncubeleon