Joel Gabuza Nqobile Tshili/Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporters NINETEEN MDC Alliance supporters were seriously injured after a truck they were travelling in overturned in Binga as they were coming from a rally addressed   by their leader, Advocate Nelson Chamisa, at Manjolo Business Centre on Saturday. The injured were among 33 passengers travelling in an Isuzu 1,5 tonne truck that was taking them to Siachilaba Business Centre when it was involved in the accident at the 114KM along Cross Dete-Binga road. Those injured were admitted to Binga District Hospital and Mpilo Central Hospital in Bulawayo. National police spokesperson, Chief Superintendent Paul Nyathi, confirmed the accident. “We understand that 19 people were injured but details are still sketchy. Maybe you can check with us tomorrow (today),” said Chief Supt Nyathi. MDC-T chairman for Matabeleland North Mr Joel Gabbuza said he did not have details on the accident. “The people with information are those hospitalised at Binga District Hospital or the police. What I might tell is just hearsay. But the accident occurred and the victims suffered varying degrees of injuries, others suffered head injuries, but there were no deaths,” said Mr Gabbuza. He disputed the fact that the truck was carrying 33 passengers saying it was too small to transport so many people. A source said one of the accident victims lost a hand. “The truck was loaded with MDC-T supporters who had attended the party’s rally at Manjolo Business Centre. Some of the victims said the driver failed to control the truck as he tried to give way to an overtaking car that was also coming from the rally,” said the source. “Of the injured passengers 17 were ferried to Binga District Hospital where they are receiving treatment while the other two who were critically injured were referred to Mpilo Central Hospital. One of them had protruding intestines and his right arm was amputated.” The crash happened two months after 23 MDC-T supporters were injured in an accident along the Bulawayo-Zvishavane highway in Filabusi after attending the alliance’s rally in Bulawayo. —@nqotshili