Karikoga Kaseke Business Reporter IN a bid to enhance destination awareness and foster market visibility, the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) has appointed VFS Global to promote Zimbabwe as a preferred tourism destination in both India and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region, through a collaborative relationship. As part of the agreement, VFS Global would support ZTA to build a unique identity of Zimbabwe as a potential tourist destination by educating and spreading awareness to tour operators, travel agents, MICE planners and  the general traveller based in India or GCC region. The agreement was officially signed by ZTA chief executive, Mr Karikoga Kaseke, in Harare. Eminent dignitaries from VFS Global, travel and trade fraternity along with the members of the press witnessed the signing event. “We have not been active in the GCC region and our absence has created room for negative perceptions to prevail. “However, we are now ready for this market because Zimbabwe is now open for business,” Mr Kaseke commented. “Through the appointment of VFS Global as market representatives for Zimbabwe in the GCC region we aim for increased awareness of Zimbabwe and establish destination presence and visibility. “We anticipate a rise in arrivals from GCC region to 13 500 by 2021 as VFS Global embarks on aggressively marketing the country.” Zimbabwe has recently targeted India as a primary market due to its potential resulting from the rapid growing disposable incomes in India. “India is a huge market for Zimbabwe, hence the modest approach to target at least 16 000 Indian travellers by 2021. This will be done through sustainable destination marketing that will be done by VFS Global,” said Mr Kaseke. A world of wonders, Zimbabwe prides itself to being home of the majestic Victoria Falls, one of the seven natural wonders of the world and a world heritage site that is the biggest curtain of water in the world in the Zambezi River. The 10 reasons for any tourist to visit Zimbabwe are peace and tranquillity, safety and security, wonderful people and culture, the majestic Victoria Falls, rich history and heritage, Great Zimbabwe the grand medieval palace, the mystique of the Eastern highlands, pristine wildlife and nature, the mythical Kariba and mighty Zambezi and the beautiful weather. Regional group COO, VFS Global, Mr Jiten Vyas, said: “As a country bestowed with rich cultural heritage, Zimbabwe is strengthening their tourism business and entering their potential markets. “We are pleased to partner with ZTA to put this country that has so much of untapped tourism potential on the world map for travellers from India and GCC who can      now experience the beautiful nation of Zimbabwe. “By promoting Zimbabwe’s tourism, we can positively contribute towards the brand building and the economic development of this country.”