Philemon Machana Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIFA executive committee member Phillimon Machana yesterday became the first person to publicly declare his intention to run for another term in the December elections. According to a proclamation by the Zifa electoral committee led by Vusisizwe Vuma, nomination papers for the Zifa executive committee position will officially open on October 16 and close on October 30, while the elections will be held on December 1. Machana, whose tenure as Zifa executive committee member in charge of finances has seen the association releasing income and expenditure statements whenever the association stages a football match, said he believes he still has a lot to offer to Zimbabwean football. “This is to inform you that after some consultations with family, friends and the football community in Zimbabwe, I Phillimon Machana, current Zifa executive committee member, have decided to put my name in the ring for the position of Zifa executive committee member. I believe I still have significant contributions to make to our football,” wrote Machana. While Machana has become the first to officially declare his intention to run for office, his other colleagues Phillip Chiyangwa, the Zifa president, and his deputy Omega Sibanda are also expected to throw their names into the hat soon. Also believed to be eyeing a national post is Bulawayo City FC chairman Jerry Sibanda, who is presently a Premier Soccer League governor. Piraishe Mabhena and Felton Kamambo stepped down as executive committee members three months ago citing a breach of the association’s constitution after the present Zifa elected officials’ mandate expired on March 31. The election road map was officially rolled out at the beginning of this month, with the opening of nominations for futsal, national beach, women as well as the Premier Soccer League. Nominations close on June 15, with the elections for the four affiliates tentatively set for July 14. Area zones’ nomination papers were the next to open on June 4 and are set to close on June 18, with elections set for the weekend of July 21-22. Provincial nominations for men’s and women’s elections will open on July 23 and close on August 6, with voting on September 1. Regional men and women nominations will open on September 3 and close two weeks later, while elections are expected to be held on October 14.