Minister of State for Bulawayo Metropolitan Provincial Affairs Cde Angeline Masuku stresses a point to Zanu-PF aspiring candidate for Bulawayo South Cde Raj Modi during a tour of Sidojiwe block of flats in Bulawayo on Friday Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter The Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Angeline Masuku urged Zanu-PF members to rally behind the party candidates for the forthcoming harmonised elections. Cde Masuku said now that the primaries are over, the party members should unite and vote for the party candidates led by the party’s First Secretary, President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Cde Masuku who was addressing party members at the launch of a project to spruce up Sidojiwe Flats which is being funded by Bulawayo South Zanu-PF candidate and businessman Cde Raj Modi to the tune of $40 000, said on Friday that the target was to win all seats in Bulawayo. “Now that we’re approaching elections, let’s all go out and vote for our candidates who won the primaries. Every single vote counts. We want the President, Members of Parliament, Senators and Councillors to all come from Zanu-PF,” she said. She said it was pleasing to note that some of the party candidates like Cde Modi were already implementing development projects in the city. “I am pleased that we have candidates who have embraced the vision of the new dispensatuion led by Cde Mnangagwa. “He’s a man of his word and this is the spirit that he has instilled in the entire party leadership, she said Cde Masuku said residents should support  development porgrammes being spearheaed by party candidates. She said party members should be free to approach their leaders whenever they have problems. “Party leaders don’t belong to individuals but to the party and residents in their constituencies. “There are some people who have a tendency of preventing other people from interacting with their leadership which is not good,” said Cde Masuku. She commended Cde Modi for taking the initiative to spruce up Sidojiwe Flats saying the country needs leaders like him. The hostels, owned by Bulawayo City Council which accommodate 500 tenants, are in a dilapidated state. @pamelashumba1