Mr Solomon Matsa (left) of Inductoserve Holdings poses for a picture with the ZNCC outgoing chairperson Dr Tinashe Manzungu after receiving the ZNCC Midlands Province Businessperson of the Year Award trophy and shield during ZNCC annual awards dinner held last Friday in Gweru Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief ENTREPRENUER and owner of King Solomon Hotel in Kwekwe, Mr Solomon Matsa, has won the businessperson of the year award in the Midlands Province. He came top in the category during the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce (ZNCC) provincial annual business awards ceremony held in Gweru on Friday evening. The first runner up in the category was Dr Gerald Zhou of Inclusive Financial Services. Mrs Memory Mugadza who operates pharmacies in Gweru and Zvishavane won the Businesswoman of the Year award with Mrs Shashore Ketina, an IT entreprenuer, coming in second. Mr Kudzai Nyika of Pote Holdings won the Manager of the Year award with Mr Temba Ngwena of the Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company coming second. Zimasco came first in the ferro alloy exporters category with African Chrome fields walking away with the first runner up prize and Natuyos Investments second runner up. In the precious minerals category, Mimosa Mines were winners with Unki Mines and Murowa Diamonds coming in second and third respectively. The innovation award went to Kwekwe Polytechnic College and Small to Medium Enterprises (SME) supporting bank award went to Inclusive Financial Services. Mr Matsa said he was overwhelmed by the award, adding that Zimbabwe was indeed open for business. “We are with the President (Mnangagwa), we are with the leadership and we think the ‘Zimbabwe is open for business’ mantra is the one that was missing in the past 37 years. The country needs business to get somewhere and it’s only Zimbabweans who drive the country into prosperity,” he said. Mr Matsa who has interests in the tourism and hospitality industry and property development among others said with the new dispensation, the country was on the right track in terms of socio-economic development. Dr Zhou said he was happy with the new developments in the country’s economy and efforts by Government to transform the country.“We feel the economy is now even more open for business. We have five branches in Midlands and we are rolling out new products in line with new prospects in the country. Our aim is to make sure we put money, real worth in the hands of the people,” he said. Dr Zhou said they will continue supporting that SMEs’, micro entrepreneurs, the small holder’s farmers under the new dispensation, which he said has a thrust in wealth creation for everyone.  Outgoing ZNCC provincial chair Dr Tinashe Manzungu said this was the time for business to grow under the new dispensation. “Our country is going on a positive direction as witnessed by the ‘Zimbabwe is open for business’ mantra. “We are now networking, showcasing and inviting investors as we work towards utilising the opportunities opened by the President through a basket of business opportunities which he has led to their opening,” he said. Over 17 categories were contested for and these included Exporter of the year, Best Bank Supporting Small to Medium Enterprises (SMEs), Tertiary Institute of the Year, ICT Company of the Year, Transport and Logistics award, Rural Businessperson, Manager of the Year, SME of the year, entrepreneur of the year and public enterprise of the Year. @pchitumba1 