 Yoliswa Dube I’M not talking about locks. I mean guys with really big afros — long enough to have braids planted — I just don’t get it. I saw a guy a few days ago and it occurred to me just how weird this actually is. I’ve known this guy for some years but probably bump into him once or twice a year. I was shocked when I saw him the other day. He had hair longer than mine (figuratively speaking of course). I mean, what do men need long hair for anyway? We’ve compromised with the locks and taken in the fade haircut. We’ve accepted that men can tint their hair blonde or burgundy too. We’ve said hey, you don’t really have to go bald guys. We’ve really been accommodating but must your hair be long and almost flowing too? I think this is where we draw the line. This is where I draw the line. I think it takes away from a man’s masculinity when he decides to keep long, straight hair. It’s probably awkward for the bae having to share shampoo, hair food and a blow dryer! All those salon trips or probably hair sessions at home — it just doesn’t seem right. Men are supposed to have hunk tendencies, you know, and walk around with manly scents not strawberry smelling shampoo. While it’s commendable that they put so much effort in maintaining their image — I think they need to get their priorities right and head to the barbershop to get a haircut before they start focusing on things that actually matter. They, like any man really, need to adopt a grooming regime that says “well kept MAN”. Nowadays, grooming can be quite difficult. So much around us is changing and the influence of social media and the global village is incredible. It can be really confusing what to take up and what to ignore. I always say keep things as simple as possible. But grooming doesn’t begin and end with trimming your hair and shaving your beard. You have to know what hairstyle suits you, how to achieve the perfect facial hair and the right way to man scape down there. Yep, I said it. It’s really important that you do. You don’t have to go all out grooming yourself. Start by making sure you smell great. Not just any smell. Your smell is uniquely you. Anyone who smells the fragrance anywhere else thinks of you. It’s your signature scent. Your cologne or perfume speaks volumes about your personal taste. You can’t choose a signature scent in a day. After trying out and wearing several fragrances for a while, you can decide which one suits you best. That becomes your signature scent. My husband has decided his is Sauvage by Christian Dior. It’s divine, if I may say so myself. Research has shown that 90 percent of women get attracted to a man that smells good. You never know, maybe your bad odour is the reason that girl said no to you. Get it right! Next, maintain oral hygiene. Bad breath is one of the biggest turnoffs in any person. The only way to prevent it is by maintaining good oral hygiene. No, not by chewing mint or spraying breath fresheners. The primary cause of bad breath is poor oral hygiene, and therefore, for any well-groomed man, taking care of the inside of your mouth is imperative. Brushing, flossing, using a mouthwash and visiting the dentist twice a year are the things you should do to ensure oral health. Never be that person who, when you open your mouth, people get uncomfortable being near you. On more occasions than one, the women in your life — wife, girlfriend, sister, mother, sister-in-law — can help you choose the right clothes. Not many men have good fashion sense; seek help if you need it. Good clothes are the cherry on top; make sure you make good choices when you go clothes shopping. Feedback from “Why not drop kilogram or two” Hie Yolie…I like your fashion articles; they are doing wonders for me. Keep up the good work. — Wengesai Mwale, Four Winds Until next week, flaunt your pattern and style and don’t forget to catch up with me on Twitter handle @Yolisswa or drop me a WhatsApp message on +263715666227