 Pamela Shumba/Sukulwenkosi Dube, Chronicle Reporters MATABELELAND North and South have released names of candidates who successfully submitted nomination papers for the 2018 harmonised elections. In Matabeleland North, a total of 156 National Assembly candidates were nominated to contest in the province’s 13 constituencies. A total of 12 candidates from different political parties will contest in Umguza constituency, 22 in Tsholotsho North, seven in Binga North, 13 in Lupane East and 10 in Lupane West. In Binga South, 10 candidates will battle it out to represent the constituency while 22 candidates will contest in Tsholotsho South, 11 in Hwange Central and 10 in Hwange East. Hwange West constituency will have 10 candidates contesting for the seat while nine will battle it out in Nkayi North, 11 in Nkayi South and nine in Bubi constituency. In Matabeleland North province, a total of 67 candidates will contest for provincial council seats, with 10 from Zanu-PF, 10 from the United Democratic Front (UDF), nine from Zapu, 10 from MDC Alliance and six from Mthwakazi Republic Party (MRP). From the MDC-T, six candidates will also contest for the provincial council seats while 10 will be from Zimbabwe Partnership for Prosperity (ZPP) and six from People’s Rainbow Coalition (PRC). In Matabeleland South Province candidates had to wait up to 2AM yesterday at the Gwanda Magistrate’s Court to hear the announcement of successful candidates. Among National Assembly candidates are Cde Abednico Ncube who will represent Zanu-PF party in Gwanda South Constituency. Lungisani Ncube who was defeated by Zanu-PF candidate for Gwanda North constituency, Cde Madodana Sibanda will contest as an independent candidate. National House of Assembly Member for Matobo South, Cde Soul Ncube will represent the Zanu-PF party in the constituency. In Bulilima East former MDC national executive member Moses Mzila Ndlovu will represent the Alliance for National Salvation Party (ANSA), MDC Matabeleland South Provincial chairman Solani Moyo will represent his party while former MDC member Norman Mpofu who was once Member of Parliament for Bulilima East constituency will stand as an independent while Cde Nqobizitha Ndlovu will represent the Zanu-PF party. Mangwe Constituency Member of Parliament, Cde Obedingwa Mguni will represent Zanu-PF while former Zapu member who was also Mangwe Rural District Council Chief Executive Officer, Nketha Mangoye Dlamini will represent the Alliance for National Salvation Party (ANSA). Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) Matabeleland South Provincial Elections Officer, Mr Rabson Nyoni said a peaceful environment prevailed during the nomination process. He said candidates from Zapu, MDC-T, National Patriotic Front and Mthwakazi Republic Party were turned back as their documents were not in order. He said Zapu candidate Paddington Mandipe was turned back as his name did not appear on the voter’s roll. — @DubeMatutu @pamelashumba1