 Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter THE monthly food basket for a family of six declined by 0,34 percent to $589,58 in May due to a reduction in meat prices. In its latest report, the Consumer Council of Zimbabwe (CCZ) said: “The cost of living as measured by CCZ low income urban earner monthly basket for a family of six decreased from the end-April 2018 figure of $591,58 to $589,58 by end-May 2018, showing a decrease of $2. “As CCZ we assume that the decrease in the total figure of the food basket can be attributed to the decrease in the price of meat, which was recorded in other regions. “We also assume that the availability of washing powder and rice in most supermarkets can be attributed to the decrease in prices due to high competition between supermarkets.” The consumer watchdog said the food basket during the period under review decreased by $2,57 from $144.20 in April to $141,63 last month. The price of detergents increased by $0,57 from $13,38 to $13,95. Price decreases were recorded in products such as salt, tea leaves, fresh milk, flour, rice, cabbage, washing powder, margarine and beef where a kilogramme of beef went down by $0,34 from $5,23 to $4,89. “Increases were recorded in roller meal, brown sugar, cooking oil, tomatoes, onions, meat, laundry bar and bath soap. “The increase in prices of onions may be as a result of seasonal changes since they will be scarce during this period of the year and also the increase in the price of a 20kg bag of roller meal by $0,09 is a cause for concern as it is a staple food for Zimbabweans hence the majority of citizens will be affected. “Increases in fuel prices may also have impacted on food prices,” said the consumer watchdog. CCZ noted that during the period under review, the bread price remained unchanged. It encouraged consumers to shop conscientiously and to always buy certified products. “Where the products are not certified, to exercise their right to information by carefully examining if the products they are purchasing are well labelled, packaged and provided with vital information such as manufacturing and expiry dates and ingredients used in the make-up of the products,” said the consumer watchdog. @okazunga