 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter SIXTEEN schools from Matabeleland South will today and tomorrow battle it out to represent the province at next month’s Copa Coca-Cola national finals in Zvishavane. Colleen Bawn High School will play host to the Copa Coca-Cola Matabeleland South provincial finals, with the girls’ tournament being held today and the boys’ tomorrow. Beitbridge district’s Tongwe Secondary School, who represented Matabeleland South in the girls’ category at last year’s national finals in Bindura, failed to make it to the 2018 provincial finals, with Malungudzi set to represent the district. Tongwe had a stunning debut at the national finals, before losing 0-3 in the quarter-finals to Vainona High of Harare in a penalty shootout after the match had ended 1-1 in regulation time. Other schools competing for the girls’ provincial ticket are former champions Mzimuni of Gwanda North, Phakamani of Gwanda South, Thekwane from Bulilima, Gwanda South’s Mhalipe, Simbhatha of Insiza, Bezha (Umzingwane), St Sebastian’s (Matobo) and hosts Colleen Bawn. Sifiso Masuku, National Association for Secondary Heads (Nash) Matabeleland South head-in-charge of soccer, said they were geared up for the games. “The stage is set for the games and all schools are raring to go. It is our hope that this time around the province will do well at the national finals and whoever wins the provincial ticket will represent us well,” said Masuku. The girls’ vetting exercise was done yesterday with the boys’ vetting set for 4PM today. Former national champions Mzingwane, Zezani from Beitbridge, Phakama of Bulilima, Plumtree from Mangwe, Gwanda South’s Kafusi, Gwanda North representatives Mtshabezi, Insiza district champions Wanezi, St Sebastian’s from Matobo and hosts Colleen Bawn will compete in the boys’ category. Meanwhile, the Matabeleland North boys’ and girls’ competitions will be held over two days at Manjolo High and Binga High respectively. The rest of the provinces will have their provincial finals tomorrow. Masvingo boys and girls will battle it out for the ticket to Zvishavane at Pamushana High tomorrow, with Midlands having their provincial finals in Zvishavane where they will use Maglas, Mandava and Shabanie Mine stadiums for their games. Rujeko High School hosts the Mashonaland Central finals, while Lord Malvern is the stage for Harare schools. In Mashonaland East, all matches will take place at St Francis of Assisi and Madzivire High, while Mashonaland West schools will converge at St Francis. Mamunyandza hosts schools in Manicaland and Bulawayo schools will assemble at Gifford High School. This year marks a special milestone in the history of Copa Coca-Cola, as the tournament marks its 30th anniversary. The national finals are set for Zvishavane from July 12-14 at Mandava Stadium. – @ZililoR