Mr Nelson Chamisa Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent MDC-T president Mr Nelson Chamisa has appointed Dr Nkululeko Sibanda as his spokesperson, replacing Mr Luke Tamborinyoka who has been ditched after indicating his intention to contest the Goromonzi West seat in the forthcoming Parliamentary elections. In a statement, Mr Chamisa also made eight other appointments with Mr Jameson Timba coming in as his presidential Chief Elections Agent and Zec liaison officer. He appointed Ms Grace Kwinjeh as the party’s representative to Brussels and European Union, Mr Driden Kunaka as the party’s envoy to Australia while Ms Yvonne Mahlunge was appointed to represent the party in the United Kingdom. Mr Chamisa appointed Mr Elliot Pfebve as the party’s Business Trade Attaché to Europe, Ireland and the United Kingdom. He appointed Mr Mathula Lusinga to be MDC-T envoy to the African Union (AU), East Africa and Central Africa while Mr Austin Moyo will represent the party in South Africa. MDC-T Chief of Staff Mr Sesel Zvidzai said Mr Chamisa made the appointments as the party prepares for the forthcoming elections. Zimbabwe will hold its harmonised elections on July 30. “In our preparation to govern we have made those appointments. The president has the pleasure of making those appointments for purposes of making sure that his party performs well moving forward,” said Mr Zvidzai. “We have made the appointments to make sure that there is good liaison between the party and Zec. And for that we appointed Mr Timba. We appointed Dr Sibanda to become our presidential spokesperson because our erstwhile (Tamborinyoka) spokesperson is now running for a Parliamentary seat.” Mr Chamisa has, however, opted not to appoint former deputy president Dr Thokozani Khupe’s replacement. Meanwhile, the MDC-T is alleged to be shutting out some of its coalition partners from contesting council elections. MDC Alliance partners have raised concerns that the MDC-T is fielding candidates in areas where they were supposed to field theirs. “The MDC-T is breaching negotiation agreements. It is now bulldozing and appointing its members to be councillors in areas that were previously reserved for alliance partners,” said one of the coalition partners. Mr Zvidzai, however, dismissed the reports. “We have got a healthy relationship with our alliance partners. It’s all canons going. We are looking and making sure that the local government arena is taken by the MDC Alliance,” he said. Mr Tendai Biti led People’s Democratic Party members have raised concerns after the MDC-T held primary elections in areas reserved for them. — @nqotshili