 Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter PARLIAMENTARIANS have challenged the Government to show commitment in improving the welfare of war veterans and ensure they live a life of dignity with appropriate provisions befitting their status. Debating a motion moved by Mutasa South legislator Cde Irene Zindi in Parliament on Wednesday, the legislators said it was high time Government adequately honoured the war veterans for the sacrifices they made for the country during the liberation struggle. Mazowe South MP Cde Fortune Chasi said the conditions of most war veterans from a health point of view were extremely deplorable. “We have some war veterans in this House who still have shrapnel from the war times and they can’t afford, on the basis of the little stipend that they get per month, to have adequate treatment. “Their children are not capable of going to primary school, let alone universities. Government therefore needs to address this matter urgently and look into the welfare of war veterans,” said MP Chasi. Legislator for Shamva South Cde Joseph Mapiki added his voice saying Government should remember that war veterans sacrificed their lives for the benefit of everyone in the country. “They are the ones who sacrificed their lives and could not bear children during the right time. Some failed to send their children to school for the country to be liberated. “However, when liberation came, they could not get anything. It’s like a catch 22 situation that when a dog catches its prey, the hunter will take the good meat and throw the bad meat to the dog which hunted,” he said. He added that female war veterans should also be looked after because they faced many challenges during the liberation struggle for the sake of every Zimbabwean. Harare West MP Ms Jessie Majome said it was a disgrace that Parliament was still discussing the welfare of war veterans 38 years after the end of the liberation struggle. “It’s a serious indictment on our nation from two perspectives. One of them is that it shows that we’re a people or a nation that doesn’t have regard for its history, about itself and about where it came from. “Surely, this issue of the status and welfare of war veterans should have long been addressed in a manner that is comprehensive and where they can all live a life of dignity and the reverence they deserve,” said Ms Majome MP for Norton constituency Mr Temba Mliswa said it was unfortunate the war veterans were still calling on the Government to improve their welfare 38 years after the country attained independence. “It’s unacceptable that 38 years after independence, we still debate the welfare of the war veterans. This country was brought about as a result of the liberation struggle which we are all indebted to. “At the same time, there is little that has been done to recognise the freedom fighters and if anything, they have become a laughing stock of the society,” said Mr Mliswa. He said there was no nation in this world that does not recognise its freedom fighters including America and Britain. “We have for a long time attacked so many countries for interfering with our affairs yet the aspect of the war veterans and freedom fighters absolutely has nothing to do with interference,” he said. Mr Mliswa said instead of Zimbabweans coming up with sustainable programmes for war veterans, people blamed the economic downturn on war veterans who had demanded their dues. He said the real reason for the suffering of former freedom fighters was that those who were in power did not recognise the war veterans. — @pamelashumba1