President Mnangagwa Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief THE era of bribing prosecutors to sweep corruption cases under the carpet is over following the setting up of the Anti-Corruption Prosecution Unit by the Government, President Mnangagwa has said. Addressing more than 50 000 youths attending the Zanu-PF Youth League convention in Gweru on Thursday, President Mnangagwa said although some alleged criminals have been arrested, he was not happy with the pace of prosecution. “On the question of eradication of corruption, there are some criminals that were arrested but we are not happy with the pace at which the prosecution is taking place. We are not happy. I think you heard last week that I have now established an Anti Corruption Prosecution Unit in the Office of the President so things have changed. Those who thought they would still be involved in corruption and bribe prosecutors and others like that, should think again,” he said. President Mnangagwa took time to appeal to the youths to shun corruption. “You must be the eyes and ears of our economy because if there is corruption among industry and commerce, in the public sector as well as private sector, the pace of growth is retarded,” he said. President Mnangagwa urged the youths to vote for Zanu-PF to safeguard the country’s heritage. “We can only protect this heritage by voting for a revolutionary party that liberated this country. It is the only party in our country which knows the tribulations that we went through. We preserve this heritage by voting Zanu-PF so that it remains in power. Your burden as the youths is to preserve this heritage. How do we achieve that? We must make sure we work on programmes to modernise our country, modernise our agriculture, modernise our industry, modernise our commerce, modernise our infrastructure, modernise our health sector and modernise our education sector,” he said. President Mnangagwa said he was impressed by the new Zanu-PF Youth leadership which he said had a vision of changing the lives of the youths and pledged Government support for their business proposals. “I listened for two hours to various presentations from the youth groups and I was so impressed. This is a new leadership. I am very impressed with your leadership. It has never happened in all your history that we gather at a convention like this one and we have various youth groups making presentations. It’s commendable,” he said. 