Kenneth Mhlophe Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS’ chairman Kenneth Mhlophe will miss his club’s mid-year special general meeting on Sunday after being appointed the Warriors’ head of delegation for the Cosafa Cup tournament in South Africa. The Warriors left the country yesterday for Polokwane in Limpopo province where they will get the defence of their title underway on Sunday against the winner of the Group B preliminary round which features Botswana, Mauritius, Malawi and Angola. “Mhlophe will be the head of delegation for the Cosafa team,” said Zifa communications manager Xolisani Gwesela. In the absence of Mhlophe, Bosso vice-chairman Modern Ngwenya will chair proceedings on Sunday. Meanwhile, CEFN Druids defender Alec Mudimu made it from the British Brigade that coach Sunday Chidzambwa had called up for the Cosafa tournament. Captain Knowledge Musona is expected to unite with his teammates in South Africa, but there are concerns about his fitness. Musona has been on a recovery programme in recent weeks, but his new Belgian club Anderlecht believe he needs rest during this off season to fully recover. The Warriors’ team management are likely to allow their talisman to use the break to fully recover as they need him more for the Afcon qualifiers that resume in September. Team manager Wellington Mpandare said Musona will still travel to South Africa, but would need to be assessed by the doctors to determine if he is fit to play, following reports of injury. “Unfortunately his flight was delayed so he can’t make it to Harare. So he will fly straight to South Africa tomorrow (today). At the same time he is nursing an injury. Remember he played only two games after that long injury lay-off. So, obviously, the doctors will look at him after arriving in South Africa. We can register up to 22 players. If he is certified fit by the doctors and if the coach wants him, obviously he will play,” said Mpandare. The Ngezi Platinum duo of Donovan Bernard and Liberty Chakoroma missed out, while all foreign-based players in camp made the team. Herentals midfielder Richard Hachiro, Chapungu goalkeeper and former Highlanders’ junior Talbert Shumba, Harare City’s Takudzwa Chimwemwe and Terrence Dzvukamanja, who was a late call up, also made the final 20. There was also room for Chicken Inn’s Devine Lunga and new faces Marshal Munetsi of Orlando Pirates and Wales-based Alec Mudimu. Chidzambwa was happy with his selection. “All I can say is that we have 20 very good players, who will represent the country and I just hope we will manage to defend our trophy,” said Chidzambwa. Warriors squad Goalkeepers: Edmore. Sibanda, Talbert Shumba, George. Chigova. Defenders: Costa Nhamoinesu, Kevin Moyo, Devine Lunga, Alec Mudimu, Takudzwa Chimwemwe, Jameson Mukombwe. Midfielders: Talent Chawapihwa, Marshall Munetsi, Ovidy Karuru, Khama Billiat, Richard Hachiro, Leeroy Mavunga, Tafadzwa Kutinyu. Strikers: Tinotenda Kadewere, Abbas Amidu, Terrence Dzvukamanja, Evans Rusike. Technical Team: Wellington Mpandare (Team manager), Sunday Chidzambwa (Head coach), Rahman Gumbo (Assistant coach), Lloyd Mtasa (Assistant coach), Brenna Msiska (Assistant coach) ,Thompson Matenda (Fitness trainer), Soman Mudariki (Team doctor), Admire Nyamadzawo (Physiotherapist), Shingirayi Binoni (Kit manager) Head of delegation: Kenneth Mhlophe