 Showbiz Correspondent FOR almost two years, Bulawayo has been welcoming new nightspots almost monthly, something that has caught the attention of many who are slowly noticing that the city is open for business. Up to 10 new spots have been opened since last year with more in the pipeline showing how much of a fun loving city this is. A survey by Chronicle Showbiz showed that there was demand for quality entertainment in the city as people here also want the finer things in life. This is why there has been constant sprucing up of existing establishments like Vivo Safari (former Safari Lounge), Walkers Pub & Grill (The Centre Bar), Cosmopolitan Night Club (former Club Eden) and New Alabama (former The Groove). Other new spots in the city are steak house Carne Casa and Club 09 (former Hustlers Night Club). Probably this explains why Phathisani Nkomo, who has been behind the opening of most clubs in the city, was awarded the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce 2018 businessman of the year. Since last year, the businessman has been hard at work, setting up new clubs and revamping existing ones to ensure they are trendy and match international standards. Revellers at Zarah Lounge in Bulawayo on its opening night Nkomo is the face behind Copa Cubana, Cosmopolitan Night Club, newly opened Zarah Lounge and Crystal Night Club. Interestingly, all of these spots have made their mark as they attract hoards of people each night. Other than Nkomo, Harare businessman, Biggie Chinoperekwei, who brought healthy competition to the city by setting up a unique product in the form of strip club – Private Lounge two years ago, has also set up various entertainment outlets in the city. These are Club Connect, Club 263, Umqombothi Sports Bar and Red Café. These two players – Chinoperekwei and Nkomo – have definitely redefined the city’s entertainment through their outlets which cater for varying markets. But in all this, many are questioning how Bulawayo, whose industry is depressed, can have so many people spending their disposable income on revelry such that there is need for more outlets. So much is the disposable income that Club Connect had to create more VIP Lounges just after opening due to high demand. For one to be in the VIP, they had to spend a minimum of $200. This concept of VIP lounges was also adopted by Nkomo whose new bars have areas specifically dedicated to “big spenders” who do not want to mix with the public. Those who want to be housed in the VIP should fork out $100 per couple. Speaking on behalf of Chinoperekwei, Tatenda Gwatidzo said there was a ready market in Bulawayo hence the setting up shop in the city and actually expanding. “The market in Bulawayo is there and we realised that we could come in with a different type of entertainment for the city. We’re always looking at ways to grow the business and hence we’ll keep on expanding if we get space where there’s a lot of traffic,” said Gwatidzo. “People here like to have fun. We loved that about them and that’s why we set our sights on opening our business in the city.” Carne Casa proprietor Silungile Nyoni-Dube said she had been driven to set up the steak house in the city because of the “new Zimbabwe” led by President Emmerson Mnangagwa. “I opened Carne Casa after the new dispensation and as an investor, I took the opportunity to open a restaurant in the CBD where there was no outlet that catered for high end dining,” Nyoni-Dube said. The opening of these numerous nightspots has given hope to the city’s artistes as they now have more space to perform. Club 263, during its early days, initiated what they called Jam Sessions which was a platform for artistes – especially the up-and-coming ones, to showcase their talent. The city’s hip hop artistes also often host their events at Club Connect with rapper ASAPH being a permanent feature at The Vista. Red Café and New Alabama have popularised up-and-coming local bands such as P Jay and The Flame.