Nation Dube Ricky Zililo in Hwange HWANGE FC skipped their morning training session yesterday to join thousands of people that attended the 46th commemorations of the June 6, 1972, Kamandama Number Two Mine disaster. The incident which happened after a suspected methane gas explosion underground on the fateful Wednesday morning of June 6, 1972, killed 427 miners. Nation Dube, the Hwange FC coach, said they decided to give the players the morning off to attend the commemorations as part of the coalmining company. “This was not a wasted day for us because we have an obligation to support and join the rest of the Hwange community in remembering the departed miners. The club belongs to the community and we believe that showing support to the people who lost their loved ones doesn’t only comfort the widows and their families, but it also brings us closer to the community that supports us,” said Dube. He was joined at the commemorations by assistant coaches Brian Njobvu and Edmore “MaMkhwebu” Sibanda. Hwange’s squad was led by veteran players Obert Moyo, Gerald Ndlovu and Gilbert Zulu. Former national team defender Felix Chindungwe and ex-Chicken Inn winger Canaan Nkomo, who joined the club at the beginning of the season, were also part of the memorial service. Dube said his side is not being carried away by the two-point lead they enjoy at the top of the Southern Region Division One League table with just nine games played. Chipangano, as the club’s faithful call them, have amassed 18 points. The coalminers’ coach said his charges are focused on the ultimate prize which is to win the championship and return to the PSL. “We have a squad that is dominated by experienced players who understand the importance of being in the topflight league so that the community is entertained. I’m impressed by the amount of work the experienced players are doing in guiding the youngsters and seeing to it that we realise our goal of being in the PSL. We will stop at nothing to make sure that we achieve our goal and reach the halfway mark in a respectable position,” said Dube. A former Hwange player himself, Dube said the league is competitive this season. “To be honest this is one of the most competitive seasons that I’ve seen in Division One. We have so many derbies, which makes it even trickier because players at those clubs raise their game and give us a scare when we play them. The same goes for new clubs, they give you tight competition and hence I emphasise on the importance of winning our home games and try to grind results away,” said Dube. The coalminers face new boys CIWU at home on Saturday. Fixtures Saturday: Toronto v Indlovu Iyanyathela (Gifford), talen Vision v Moto Moto (Gifford, 12PM), Hwange v CIWU (Hwange, 12PM), Casmyn v Makomo (Turk Mine), ZPC Hwange v ZRP Bulawayo (Hwange, 12PM) Sunday: Zim Leopards v Main Line (Luveve, 11AM), Tsholotsho v NRZ Leopards (3PM), Mosi v Bosso 90 (Victoria Falls)