Abdelaziz Bougja RUGBY Africa President Abdelaziz Bougja has warned all six teams eyeing the Rugby Africa Gold Cup that there will be no simple matches ahead of the kick-off on June 16. The six-team competition will be played on a round-robin, home and away basis, with the winner joining South Africa at the 2019 World Cup in Japan. The second team will go through the reperchage tourney organised by World Rugby with rivals from Asia, America and Europe to pick the final slot available. “Each match is of importance given the format of these competitions,” Bougja told Xinhua on Monday. “The winner of the tournament will be declared after the last matches on August 18, once the number of points obtained by each team is calculated. “That’s why there’s no big or small game in this timetable; it’s a race to the finish line to open the door to the World Cup.” Kenya will launch its title campaign against Morocco on June 23. New Zealand’s Ian Snook assisted by Murray Roulston took charge of the Kenyan team in April and have witnessed the potential at their disposal when they guided the team to a 34-16 win against Uganda in the Elgon Cup on May 26. “It is a good result and there is talent that needs to be polished and bolstered for endurance run. We will change the playing style, but in general Kenya is on the right track in advance of their first Gold Cup match against Morocco,” said coach Snook. South African Jaco Stoumann, who coaches the Tunisian team, is also hopeful of a good performance in the Africa Gold Cup. “We haven’t fallen behind in our training programme, but we are taking a break for Ramadan. Two weeks before the start of the competition, we will resume training to be sure to give our best against Namibia,” he said. Namibia are the defending champions and will open the show in Windhoek on June 16 against the Ugandans. Coach Phil Davies is under no illusions of the challenge ahead. “This competition will be Namibia’s toughest World Cup qualifier for the last 10 years. Despite the challenge, we are confident because we have a very strong team with the talent, mindset and attitude needed to compete in this type of event,” said Davies. Uganda coach John Duncan has warned their rivals to underrate the Cranes at their own peril. “We have a training camp in Bloemfontein, South Africa. This camp will give us access to the expertise of coaches from the Cheetahs club to put the finishing touches on our preparations. We are eager to get out there and compete against the best in Africa,” says Duncan. Zimbabwe, who are coached by South African Peter de Villiers, will debut in the World Cup qualifiers since 1991 and face the Moroccans under French coach Pierre Chadebech. The North Africans are newcomers to the Africa Gold Cup. — Infosurhoy.com