Dr Obert Mpofu Chronicle Reporters IT is possible for Zanu-PF to win parliamentary and council seats in Bulawayo if party members stop unnecessary squabbles, the party’s secretary for administration Cde Obert Mpofu said yesterday. Cde Mpofu told party supporters at a healing and reconciliation meeting at Bulawayo provincial headquarters, Davies Hall that the party should work towards removing opposition parties from the city. Bulawayo has largely been dominated by the MDC since the turn of the millennium with Zanu-PF only winning six seats in 2015 by-elections. “It’s possible to win the coming elections if the party is dedicated and brave. If you are brave and dedicated as you are showing today there is nothing that will stop you from winning. Nothing can stop you if you are working together. You are my neighbours, I come from Umguza Constituency and we had the best results in the region in 2013 garnering 17 000 votes. You can also win elections,” said Cde Mpofu. “We should stop unnecessary squabbles that do not take us anywhere. You’ll find party members fighting over insignificant things. Most of the people who are fighting in the party are position holders.” He said indiscipline and being self-centred has resulted in some party candidates losing elections. Cde Mpofu said once elected or appointed to party positions, some members turn their backs on supporters forgetting where they got their mandate to lead from. He challenged Zanu-PF candidates to emulate President Mnangagwa who remains humble despite occupying the country’s top post. “He is a listening President. He doesn’t spend time narrating stories that no one wants to hear. He is telling the people of the things that he has done and those he is going to do. He is about development and nation building,” he said. Cde Mpofu said President Mnangagwa was concerned with the people of Matabeleland region. He said it was pointless for people in the region to be stuck in the past. At another meeting held in Magwegwe suburb, the party’s Central Committee member for Bulawayo Cde Emmanuel Kanjoma urged party supporters to heed President’s call for peaceful elections. Cde Kanjoma said the new dispensation was faced by a mammoth task to clear the political mess left by the ex-President Robert Mugabe’s administration. “We restored order and got rid of a president who allowed himself to be surrounded by criminals. As the new dispensation we are facing the task of clearing this mess that Mugabe left behind and we will re-engage with the world under the leadership of our capable president, ED Mnangagwa,” said Cde Kanjoma. He said the party was aware of impostors who want to tarnish its image by abusing its regalia but they will soon be exposed. “We are aware that our party was infiltrated by impostors who are loyal to the enemy. They come here and take party regalia and then go on to do mischief, creating negative perceptions about party members, especially our youths,” said Cde Kanjoma. Another Central Committee member and senatorial candidate for Pumula Constituency, Cde Molly Mpofu, said the party’s supporters should bury the hatchet and work towards winning the coming elections. The party also introduced its candidates urging them to intensify their campaigns and should know how to translate the party’s election manifesto to the public. At another inter district meeting, held in Njube suburb the party introduced its candidates, urging them to work closely with the people. The party’s national youth secretary for external affairs Cde Sibongile Sibanda said party candidates should campaign to ensure that the President and the party win the elections. “Our candidates should always remember that they were elected into leadership by the people who are surrounding them today. We expect an environment where candidates know that they are servants of the people and the party. “This will not only bring development but mutual respect and victory for the party. Let’s all rally behind our candidates and our President Cde Mnangagwa,” Cde Sibanda said. — @pamelashumba1/@nqotshili/@andile_tshuma