Prof Mqhele Dlodlo Business Reporter THE National University of Science and Technology (Nust) says it has signed a memorandum of agreement with Chinese Satewave Technologies P/L to kick-start the implementation of a solar photo-voltaic farm project to be constructed on the university grounds. In a latest report on its website, the university said a historical signing ceremony was held recently at the Vice-Chancellor Professor Mqhele Dlodlo’s boardroom. Satewave Technologies chief executive, Mr Zhou Zhongguo, is reported to have signed the agreement to make official the partnership, which will bring solar energy to Nust. The investment value for the project is not stated. According to the report, the deal entails implementation of a Joint Venture project development of a 5MW PV solar farm that includes engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning. The project is expected to meet the energy requirements of Nust with excess sold to the national grid. The report said Nust and Satewave are keen to work together to address energy challenges and the need to mainstream energy efficiency concerns is in line with the national vision. Prof Dlodlo highlighted that the solar plant will be able to produce energy sufficient for Nust and the surrounding community. “This solar project will seek to cover the energy needs of Nust as it will supply a 0.25 megawatt, with the excess being sold to the grid. It is my hope to see (Nust) Technopark and Satewave being a power supplier registered with our energy regulators and hopefully grow to be one of Africa’s solar energy suppliers,” said Prof Dlodlo. The project also covers installation of solar bins, solar bus shelters, solar water heating, solar water pumping, block chain technology and other emerging technologies. Nust Technopark director Dr Eli Mtetwa and university registrar, Mr Fidelis Mhlanga, witnessed the agreement together with other principal officers. According to the report, Satewave Technologies is an integrated Zimbabwean-based Chinese construction technology services company operating in the telecommunications, electrical, civil construction sectors. It is also the ZTE Accredited business partner for ZTE mobile phones in Zimbabwe. Satewave offers a range of expert contracting services to both public and private sector customers.