 EDITOR — When carpentry becomes life. “I am doing well as an entrepreneur and do not dream of working for anyone. I hope that the Government in the “Zimbabwe is open for business” era will help capable people like me to boost our businesses, grow our companies and create more employment. “As much as there are no jobs out there for now, I urge Zimbabweans to take heed of President Mnangagwa’s call and start businesses, no matter how small, for one day it will pay off.” These are the sentiments of a young Harare entrepreneur, Fight Wazara (35), of Glen View. Wazara owns a successful carpentry business at Glen View 8 Complex where he employs four people. He says when finding a job became difficult in the early 2000s, he immediately started his small business. “I have never worked for anyone in my life. Soon after school I analysed the economic situation in the country and went straight into carpentry. “I have not only created employment for myself, but others,” he said. He has been in the upholstery business since 2000, specialising in sofas and couches, and has perfected his art through experience. Although he started small, he is now one of the most successful carpenters at Glen View 8 Complex. His unique products are made from natural fibres, synthetics and leather trimmings. Wazara has a strong base of customers  and delivers as far as Beitbridge and Victoria Falls to both individuals and furniture shops. With each set of sofas going for at least $1 200, he is earning more than enough to live a decent life. His four employees help him as the business grows. The young entrepreneur embraces the use of social media, especially Facebook and WhatsApp, to market his sofas, and he is doing well. Besides, he says, “After purchasing one set from me, one is always guaranteed to bring back more customers; that is how good I am.” To ensure his business thrives, even with the current cash shortages, Wazara has embraced the use of plastic money. He accepts EcoCash and bank transfers, which attracts more customers. All he wants is to see his business grow and Zimbabwe prosper. Indeed, during tough times, people fall and never rise, but others like Wazara stumble up, dust their knees and move on. What he has achieved proves how he remained standing even in the face of raging storms. He simply grabbed the opportunity and made the best out of it. He wants to make the best out of opportunities being made available by President Mnangagwa. With such talent on display, Zimbabwe is probably looking at ‘Wazara Holdings’ in the making. Rumbidzai Ngwenya