President ED Mnangagwa Tendai Mugabe,Harare Bureau A record 23 people yesterday successfully filed nomination papers to contest as presidential candidates in the July 30 harmonised elections. The record figure which is a first since independence in 1980, has been described by political analysts as a sign of mature democracy and opening up of political space by President Mnangagwa’s administration. Professor Lovemore Madhuku In the 2002 presidential elections, there were five candidates that included Messrs Robert Mugabe (Zanu-PF), Morgan Tsvangirai (MDC), Wilson Kumbula (Zanu Ndonga), Shakespeare Maya (National Alliance for Good Governance) and Paul Siwela (Independent) while 2008 recorded four candidates Messrs Mugabe (Zanu-PF), Tsvangirai (MDC-T), Simba Makoni (Mavambo, Dawn Kusile) and Langton Toungana (Independent). Retired Brigadier-General Ambrose Mutinhiri In 2013 there were five presidential candidates – Messrs Mugabe (Zanu-PF), Tsvangirai (MDC-T), Dumiso Dabengwa (Zapu), Welshman Ncube (MDC) and Mr Kisinoti Mukwazhe (Zimbabwe Democratic Party). This year the number ballooned by more than 500 percent to reach 23. Mr Brian Taurai Mteki Among those who successfully filed papers yesterday were President Mnangagwa (Zanu-PF), Messrs Nelson Chamisa (MDC-Alliance), Peter Gava (United Democratic Front), Kwanele Hlabangana (Republicans Party of Zimbabwe), Divine Mhambi (National Alliance of Patriotic and Democratic Republicans) and Blessing Kasiyamhuru (Zimbabwe Partnership for Prosperity). Thokozani Khuphe Other candidates were Dr Thokozani Khupe (MDC-T), Professor Lovemore Madhuku (National Constitutional Assembly), Messrs Noah Manyika (Build Zimbabwe Alliance), Brian Mteki (Independent), William Mugadza (Bethel Christian Party), Evaristo Chikanga (Rebuild Zimbabwe) and Joseph Busha (FreeZim Congress). Joice Mujuru Ms Violet Mariyacha (United Democracy Movement), Joice Mujuru (People’s Rainbow Coalition), Dr Nkosana Moyo (Alliance for People’s Agenda), Messrs Johannes Chiguvare (People’s Progressive Party), Daniel Shumba (United Democratic Alliance), Elton Mangoma (Coalition of Democrats), Peter Munyanduri (New Patriotic Front), Ambrose Mutinhiri (National Patriotic Front), Peter Wilson (Democratic Opposition Party) and Melbah Dzepasi of (#1980 Freedom Movement Zimbabwe) also successfully filed their papers. Mr Nelson Chamisa Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Cde Ziyambi Ziyambi filed papers on behalf of President Mnangagwa. Speaking to our Harare Bureau, Cde Ziyambi said: “We have successfully launched our papers for our Presidential Candidate Cde ED Mnangagwa. We, in fact, did a pre-submission yesterday (Wednesday) and the papers were duly accepted today. “We are geared for this election and we are confident of victory. When we visited the nomination court we also witnessed several political parties submitting their parties which is a sign that our democracy has really matured.” Dr Nkosana Moyo MDC Alliance secretary general Mr Douglas Mwonzora said: “The process has so far gone well. The nomination papers of our presidential candidate were successfully filed.” Mr Mwonzora said the nomination process progressed well but their major concern was the availability of the final voters’ roll. Mr Gava of United Democratic Front said: “The process has gone well and we are now waiting how we are going to fare. “There is a lot that we would want to say but we have reserved that for the rallies that we are going to hold.” Zec chairperson Justice Priscilla Chigumba said the nomination process went on well although there were some incidences of intra-party violence. “The process has gone on very well. All our preparations were on course,” she said. “We had the provisional voters’ roll available for the assistance of those who have not been able to access it. “All of the aspiring nominees were given assistance by the Zec and I quite pleased with the process here at the High Court with regards to the presidential nominees and also quite pleased with the process of the nomination of those aspiring to be Members Parliament. “However, I did take note that those aspiring for council there is a bit of a challenge there. As you know there is no monetary fee and we have found that there is a lot of aspirants for council. “We did have a few incidences of allegations of intra party violence and I am quite confident that because we have adequate number of the Zimbabwe Republic Police to take care of that. Overall, I am fairly happy by the performance of the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission and its staff.” The nomination court sat until 9PM processing the papers as some of the candidates failed to gather the 100 signatures of supporters as required by the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission. One candidate Mr Tendai Munyanduri of New Patriotic Front delayed the process after his cellphone run out of power before paying nomination fees via EcoCash. He was rescued by a journalist who offered him a power bank to recharge his mobile phone.