President Emmerson Mnangagwa and Energy Minister Simon Khaya Moyo unveil a plaque at the groundbreaking ceremony for the Hwange Power station Expansion yesterday Nduduzo Tshuma in Hwange PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa yesterday said the Saturday terror attacks at White City Stadium in Bulawayo will  not deter his Government from its resolve to modernise the country assuring the nation and investors that Zimbabwe remains open for business. Speaking at the ground breaking ceremony for the Hwange Power Station Expansion here, President Mnangagwa said his administration has a clear vision for Zimbabwe to be a strong, progressive and prosperous economy. The Hwange expansion project to cost more than $1,5 billion, is the country’s biggest energy project since Independence and one of the single largest energy projects in Africa in the past two decades. The President’s sentiments came as China condemned the attacks saying nothing will derail Zimbabwe from its path to an economic turnaround. “My Government is determined to turn around the fortunes of our   great   country and create a Zimbabwe we all want. “We have a very clear vision for Zimbabwe to be an open, free and democratic country with a progressive, prosperous and strong economy. “The recent sad and unfortunate event in our country in Bulawayo will never deter us from our resolve to modernise our country,” said President Mnangagwa during his keynote address. “Allow me therefore to take this  opportunity to assure our nation and investors alike that we are a safe and peace-loving country and indeed Zimbabwe remains open for business.” A total of 49 people were injured when an explosive that was targeted at President Mnangagwa went off at White City Stadium on Saturday. Two security officers later died in hospital after sustaining serious injuries. The President has described the incident as a “cowardly terrorist attack” calculated to cause bloodshed and mayhem. The President escaped unharmed but officials that include Vice President Kembo Mohadi, Zanu-PF national chairperson Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri, Vice President Constantino Chiwenga’s wife Mrs Marry Chiwenga, the ruling party’s national  political commissar, Lieutenant-General Engelbert Rugeje (Retired) and Zanu-PF Women’s League secretary Mabel Chinomona, were injured. Earlier speaking at the same event, the Chinese Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Huang Ping said his country stands firmly in solidarity with Zimbabweans after Saturday’s terror attack. “We condemn political violence perpetuated at the White City Stadium in Bulawayo last Saturday and wish to pay condolences to the people and the friends who suffered as casualties,” said Mr Huang. “We believe that nothing will derail Zimbabwe’s ongoing endeavour for peace and development and the Zimbabwean people will emerge from this event stronger and more united and on its way ahead.” Mr Huang added, “I would like to extend my profound appreciation to His Excellency President Mnangagwa for your presence at today’s event. “The strongest response to violence is peace and the fact that we are gathered here today is in itself a manifestation that both China and Zimbabwe are committed to peace and development and we stand firmly in solidarity with Zimbabwean people during this challenging time.” On his inauguration in November last year, President Mnangagwa emphasised that his administration and the ruling Zanu-PF party he leads will expend energy on economic development. The expansion project is expected to create at least 3 000 jobs that would benefit mainly residents in Hwange  and surrounding communities.