 Ricky Zililo in Hwange FORMER national women’s rugby team winger Octavia Chikukura is happy with the tag rugby project she leads in Hwange as part of her drive to develop the game that gave her fame. Chikukura started the tag rugby initiative in 2014 and says she’s happy with the popularity the sport is gaining, particularly among primary school learners. She said nine out of 12 Hwange urban primary schools now play tag rugby almost on a weekly basis, which is the foundation for development of the sport. “It is pleasing to note that kids are enjoying rugby. Our focus has been to have tag rugby played at primary schools, which is the first stage to introduce kids to the game. As it is, we have nine out of 12 Hwange urban schools playing the sport and our aim is to have all primary schools within the coal mining town playing rugby by next year,” said Chikukura. The schools actively playing tag rugby are Thomas Coulter, Lwendulu, Megawatt, Coal Fields, Nechibondo, St Ignatius, St George’s, Mabinga and Ingagula. Plans are underway to introduce the sport to the remaining three primary schools Makwika, Sir Humphrey and Lusumbani. “When we started tag rugby, people, particularly parents, were cautious thinking that it will be more physical, with lots of contacts like the conventional game. However, after seeing that tag rugby averts injuries, they are opening up and kids enjoy playing the sport. The other challenge we have been facing is that some schools do not have facilities for rugby, but this will not deter our efforts to promote the sport. We will continue to have more tournaments, which are more like exhibition games to keep that excitement,” Chikukura said. Tomorrow Mabinga of Cinderella Township will host a primary schools tag rugby tournament whose theme is “Female inspiration through rugby”. Thomas Coulter, Lwendulu, Ingagula, St Ignatius and the hosts Mabinga will participate in the tournament. “The idea is to inspire and try to keep these girls involved in sport so that even when they leave school they keep on playing rugby. What we’ve realised is that it’s easier for boys to graduate and play for clubs, but interest from girls dries up once they leave school. It’s our hope that through such competitions, girls will be inspired to keep playing rugby for as long as possible,” said Chikukura. — @ZililoR