President ED Mnangagwa Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent ZANU-PF Matabeleland South Province yesterday held a prayer meeting for President Mnangagwa and victims of the bombing incident that occurred at White City stadium in Bulawayo over the weekend. The party’s Provincial Co-ordinating Committee also issued a statement condemning the bombing incident which happened just as the President was leaving the VVIP podium after addressing the rally. Speaking at the meeting, Zanu-PF Matabeleland South provincial chairman Cde Rabelani Choeni said it was important for the culprits to be arrested as they were clearly against the development of the nation. “Following the attempt on the President’s life, we have decided as Matabeleland South to hold a prayer meeting to call on God to watch over him. We are also praying for peace and unity to prevail during the election period. We also pray for the speedy recovery of comrades that were injured in the explosion and families that have lost their relatives. “We pray for the President’s protection against his enemies that want him dead and that the Lord may give him strength. We also condemn this bastardly, cowardly and criminal terrorist act against the life of our icon and party leader who is on record as preaching peace, harmony and forgiveness before, during and after the elections,” he said. Cde Choeni said although the incident occurred in Bulawayo, it had an impact on other provinces. He said his province sympathises with Bulawayo residents as they tried to come to terms with such a horrific incident. Cde Choeni urged the people of Matabeleland South province to be peaceful regardless of political affiliation. He said the party was going to go through the election process without engaging in violence. “Our hearts are pained by these people who planned to kill the President. We love our President and we want him to live long. It’s also sad that 49 party cadres were injured among them VP Mohadi, Cde O Muchinguri, Cde Rugeje, VP Chiwenga’s wife Cde Mary Chiwenga among others. “This incident also stands to prove the existence of barbarians who don’t believe in democratic means of changing leadership as enunciated not only in our party constitution but also in the national constitution,” he said. Leading the prayer during the meeting, Reverend Rabson Mbedzi from the Apostolic Faith Mission Church in Zimbabwe said the church was   not pleased with the violence which had been displayed. He said the country’s leadership had been appointed by God and it was important for the people to respect it. The Rev said political differences that existed had to be resolved amicably. He also appealed to citizens to observe peace at all times.—@DubeMatutu