Rutendo Makore Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau MIGHTY Warriors’ chief striker, Rutendo Makore, says it’s all about teamwork going into their first leg of the final qualifying round of the Africa Women Cup of Nations qualifiers against Zambia tomorrow in Lusaka. The senior women side left for Zambia yesterday ahead of their first leg match tomorrow at Nkoloma Stadium. They will then host their neighbours at Rufaro in the second leg on June 10. Makore, who missed the first round of the qualifiers due to an injury, says teamwork is what they need going into tomorrow’s game. “I can say I am just happy to be back in the Mighty Warriors set-up. The last time I was injured and I was frustrated because I was not there for the Namibia game. ‘’But right now I am back and everyone is happy, we are working as a team. “We are looking at just working as a team, it’s all about teamwork from the technical team and to the players,” said Makore. With coach Sithethelelwe Sibanda retaining most of the regular faces for the Zambia encounter, Makore believes it also counts since they know their strengths and weaknesses. “We have been together for a long time, we know each other’s strength and weaknesses. So we need to utilise our strength to beat Zambia,” said Makore. After spending almost six months at Sporting Club de Heuleva in Spain, Makore is also banking on a few lessons learnt during her stay in Europe. “I had a great experience playing with people who have got the resources and football is just big there. There are no small teams in Spain and the players are technically good. “So, in what I did and saw, there are some things I learnt and will showcase during the Zambia game. And I know my teammates will help me,” Makore said. The 25-year-old striker has become a key player for the Mighty Warriors and last year she claimed the golden boot at the Cosafa Women’s championships in Bulawayo. “We are not underrating them because they are a strong team…but we are going there as a team and try to qualify,” said Makore. Team Goalkeepers: Chido Dzingirai, Shebba Rauli. Defenders: Nobuhle Majika, Lynett Mutukuto, Sheila Makoto, Sithembile Nyoni, Nobukhosi Ncube. Midfielders: Talent Mandaza (captain), Emmaculate Msipa, Daisy Kaitano, Felistas Muzongondi, Mavis Chirandu, Marjory Nyaumwe. Strikers: Rutendo Makore, Erina Jeke, Berita Kabwe, Maud Mafuruse, Tafadzwa Tsunguro.