Zanu-PF supporters chant slogans during Acting President Chiwenga’s address at Chireya High School in Chireya area Gokwe North yesterday (picture by Dennis Mudzamiri) Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief ACTING President Constantino Chiwenga yesterday urged Zimbabweans to remain vigilant in the face of the terror attack at White City Stadium in Bulawayo on Saturday and reiterated that the country was not going back on the July 30 harmonised elections. A total of 49 people were injured when an explosive that was targeted at President Mnangagwa went off at the stadium. Two security officers later died in hospital after sustaining serious injuries. Addressing hundreds of people gathered at Chireya High School under Chief Chireya in Gokwe North for a Zanu-PF campaign rally, Acting President Chiwenga said progressive Zimbabweans must be alert so that such terrorist attacks don’t happen again. A minute of silence was observed at the rally in honour of the officers killed in the terror attack. “The enemies of the country wanted to do the unthinkable and end the leadership of the party, the leadership of the government with a bomb that was thrown as President Mnangagwa was leaving the stage at White City Stadium in Bulawayo. 49 people were injured and two security officers lost their lives. The officers who lost their lives are Dube and Mugunzva. This terrorism won’t stop elections. Elections will go ahead as planned. Even if some people don’t want elections they must not resort to terrorism acts, “he said. The Acting President said such attacks were unZimbabwean, adding that the law enforcement agents were working on the matter. He assured the nation that perpetrators of the banditry act will be brought to book. “Such acts are unZimbabwean, they are unAfrican and the police and other security agents are working on the matter and perpetrators will be caught. The law will take its course,” said Acting President Chiwenga. “It is painful but as Zimbabweans we must now be vigilant so that such acts won’t happen again.” Acting President Chiwenga said apart from the unfortunate White City Stadium banditry act, campaigns were generally being conducted in a peaceful manner. “We want to hold peaceful and transparent elections and now we have violent free campaigns which is commendable. We don’t want violence. Anyone should be free to choose a candidate of his or her choice. We want free, fair and credible elections. We have invited the EU, AU, Sadc, and other individual countries are here to observe the elections which we want to be held in a peaceful and transparent matter, “he said. Acting President Chiwenga said Cde Mnangagwa was the rightful candidate for the ruling party to take Zimbabwe to prosperity. He said the ruling party’s aspiring MPs and councillors are tried and tested and should be able to bring forth development in their respective areas and country at large. “Last year we celebrated a new dispensation under President Mnangagwa. That political development saw us standing on one leg with the other hanging in the air. Now July 30 elections should see us standing on both legs and we should go in numbers and vote for President Mnangagwa and Zanu-PF,” he said. Acting President Chiwenga said President Mnangagwa had so far brought investment worth over $16 billion, adding that more socio-economic development opportunities were in the pipeline. He said the ground breaking ceremony on Wednesday for the $1,5billion Hwange Thermal Power Station expansion project for Unit 7 and 8 signals a brighter future for the country as power will be available for the mining and manufacturing industries as well. “However, we must end corruption which is an evil that is derailing progress. The one who gives or receives a kickback for whatever favour is guilty of corruption and must be brought to book,” he said. “For you cotton farmers we want to bring cotton auction floors to your provinces so that you get higher rewards from your efforts. At the same time, Command Cotton will see us supporting you with inputs and chemicals. We are investing in a new cotton seed that will give you high retains even if you put it on a smaller piece of land.”