 Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls THE Victoria Falls Border Post will be temporarily closed tomorrow to allow for the smooth running of the Econet Victoria Falls Marathon. A notice posted on the organisers’ website stated that the border with Zambia will not open until 8:30AM tomorrow. Those intending to cross the border for the marathon should do so today. “On Sunday 1 July, the Zimbabwe/Zambia border will be closed until 8:00AM due to the Econet Victoria Falls Marathon. The main road between the border and railway line at Landela Centre will be closed between 5:30AM and 8:30AM. Please be aware that there will be participants of the marathon on the roads until 12 midday and drivers should exercise caution during this period,” reads the notice. Events sponsorship manager Debbie Harrison said registration for the marathon started yesterday at 10AM and ends today at 4PM at Kingdom Hotel. Registration is on a first come first serve basis. “Please note, a ceiling has been set and we are capping the numbers at a certain point, so once we reach that target, registration will close,” Harrison said. Organisers added a new category this year, the Steward Bank team relay. Harrison said in this category corporates and teams enter as a team of two runners. Each runner has to complete 10.5km and make them win the combined distance of a 21km. A team can be mixed with males or females. “Either way, as this is a fun event, the fastest team will be awarded the prize regardless of gender split. Team with the fastest collective time which crosses the finish line wins and no individual times will be recorded as only one final combined team result will be recorded,” said Harrison. She said the first runner from each team will start with the main half marathon runners and hand over the baton at the Steward Bank transition point. The second runner will complete the distance and finish in the main tunnel along with all the other half marathon runners. Transition runners will be transported en-masse from the hotel to the transition point. Entry fees for the Steward Bank team relay are $20 per team. The whole marathon comprises the 42.2km full marathon, 21.1km half marathon and 7km fun run. The race starts from Zimpost Car Park, proceeds to the Victoria Falls Border along Livingstone Way, briefly crossing the bridge between Zimbabwe and Zambia and back. It then goes through the Zambezi National Park and finishes at Victoria Falls Primary School. — @ncubeleon