 Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter A MAN armed with an iron bar allegedly bludgeoned a Lupane businessman to death for refusing to sell him some soya chunks last year. Ndumiso Mlilo allegedly killed Mr Fanet Ndlovu (41), who operated a shop at St Luke’s Business Centre. The attack took place in full view of some villagers and shop attendants who later tried to stop Mlilo as he pounded on a hapless Mr Ndlovu with the iron bar. Mlilo found Mr Ndlovu sitting on a counter at a neighbour’s shop where he had gone to buy a soft drink and started accusing him of refusing to sell him a packet of soya chunks. Mlilo, whose details were not given, allegedly charged at members of the public who ran for dear life after they had tried to restrain him. Neighbourhood watch committee members later apprehended Mlilo at the scene with the help of villagers after one of them threw a chair at him. Mlilo appeared before Lupane resident magistrate Mr Ndumo Masuku facing a charge of murder. He was not asked to plead and was remanded in custody to September 4. According to court papers, Mr Ndlovu was at Silibaziso Store next to his at St Luke’s Business Centre when he met his death. “The now deceased bought a soft drink from Ms Ketty Mhlanga and sat on a counter while drinking it. The accused entered the shop and said, I wanted to buy chunks from your shop last year and you chased me away,” said the prosecutor Mr Derrick Ndlovu. The court was told that Mlilo, who was armed with two stones and an iron bar, accused Mr Ndlovu of being pompous and threatened to beat him up. Mlilo threw stones towards Mr Ndlovu who ducked. “The accused hit the now deceased with an iron bar on the legs and head and he fell down,” said the prosecutor. Mlilo allegedly continued assaulting a helpless Mr Ndlovu who lay unconscious on the floor. Ms Mhlanga fled from the shop while screaming for help and Mlilo allegedly chased after her. Some patrons attempted to hold Mlilo but threatned to attack them. One witness Mr Lungisani Sibanda picked a chair and hit Mlilo and the neighbourhood watch committee members apprehended him. Members of the public rendered first aid on Mr Ndlovu before he was rushed to St Paul’s Clinic where he was later transferred to St Luke’s Hospital but died on admission. In a separate incident, a jealous Nyamandlovu man was arrested after he allegedly fatally beat his wife. Officer Commanding Lupane District Chief Superintendent Edgar Dhliwayo said Elvis Ngwenya (28) of Village 3 Seafield Valley under Chief Deli, allegedly accused the now deceased Ms Primrose Ncube of infidelity after a male church mate greeted her on Sunday night. The couple had just dropped off a Victoria Falls bound train at Nyamandlovu Station at around 11PM when an unnamed church mate greeted Ms Ncube. Ngwenya allegedly used a switch to assault his wife causing her death a few hours later. Ngwenya is expected to appear in court soon charged with murder. @ncubeleon