Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau ZIMBABWE’S Gems coach Lloyd Makunde has urged his charges to stay focused when they begin their campaign today at the ongoing Africa Netball Championships in Lusaka, Zambia. Zimbabwe are one of the seven countries vying for the African championship and one of the remaining two tickets to next year’s World Cup in Liverpool, England. The other participating countries are defending champions Uganda, Kenya, Botswana, Namibia, Malawi and hosts Zambia. The Gems get the ball rolling with a game against Malawi this morning. They will then take on Botswana later on in the day. Zimbabwe, seeking their second title at continental level and qualification for the 2019 World Cup, know it’s not going to be an easy task with Malawi ranked sixth in the world coming in as the favourites for the African title. Malawi automatically qualified for the World Cup because of their ranking. Botswana have been on the rise as well and the last time they met, Zimbabwe went down 41-43 at the Pent Series in Namibia. But the senior netball side have made it clear they will not be intimidated going into this event and Makunde said they need to stick to their game-plan. “We were working hard on our team’s defence as a whole and if the girls come to the party, there won’t be tough games. ‘’It’s like all the games are equally important since we cannot afford to lose any of them. “The girls just have to play according to instructions. Obviously, we expect tough competition but we have also prepared well. ‘’They (the players) have settled well and we have been training since we arrived here in Lusaka,” said Makunde. Zimbabwe, ranked 13th in the world, have had their fair share of success over the last few years, winning their first African championship in 2015. They have continued to climb up the ladder on the world rankings and have played most of the teams participating at the African Championships on various platforms, including the Pent Series, hosted by Namibia in June where they came second behind the hosts. The senior netball team have done well against the likes of Zambia and Namibia in the past and could draw some inspiration from that in their quest to secure their place at next year’s World Cup in England. Vice-captain Felistas Kwangwa, who is just coming from a knee injury that kept her out for several months, said she is ready to deliver. “I am confident we are going to win although I know Uganda will be there. They are one of our toughest challenges but from the way we prepared, and polishing up our mistakes from previous competition, I think we are going to make it. “I am very happy and I am very excited to be back. I thought I was now out of court for good but I tried my best and I think I will make the girls proud. “The competition in camp was tough. I had to fight for my place in the team and I think because of experience, I managed to beat the youngsters,” said Kwangwa. Apart from Kwangwa, Zimbabwe also have a number of experienced players such as Pauline Jani, Mercy Mukwadi and Ursula Ndlovu. Gems Team Christine Kadandara, Felistas Kwangwa (vice-captain), Rudo Karume, Alice Tewera, Perpetua Siyachitema (captain), Ndaiziveyi Madzikangava, Patricia Mauladi, Claris Kwaramba, Ursula Ndlovu, Pauline Jani, Mercy Mukwadi, Sharon Bwanali.