 Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter FIVE armed robbers allegedly broke into a cocktail bar at Shangani Business Centre in Matabeleland South and attacked the bar lady with machetes and iron bars before getting away with $800, two smart phones and a casino slot machine. The suspects, who were all in masks, are on the run. They allegedly cut through the main door with a bolt cutter at around 4AM on Tuesday. Matabeleland South police spokesperson Inspector Philisani Ndebele confirmed the incident yesterday. He said the robbery occurred at Fast Server Cocktail Bar at Shangani Business Centre. “I can confirm that five men in masks broke into a cocktail bar in the early hours of Tuesday and robbed an employee of $800, two smart phones and a casino slot machine that contained an unknown amount of cash. “They disappeared into darkness soon after committing the crime and no arrests have been made,” he said. Insp Ndebele said the suspects, who were armed with machetes and iron bars, demanded cash and valuables from the bar attendant. He said they assaulted the attendant with the iron bars before forcing her to surrender cash and cellphones. Insp Ndebele said the suspects took with them a casino slot machine and the total value of the stolen property is $1 150. He said police were appealing for information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects to contact any nearest police station. Insp Ndebele warned business people against keeping large sums of money at their premises as this attracts thieves. Last week Mr Tizai Dava from Filabusi lost $4 000 and a Toyota Fun Cargo vehicle to three unidentified armed robbers who broke into his home. The car valued at $3 000 was recovered near Mbalabala Business Centre along the Bulawayo-Beitbridge Highway. The suspects broke into Mr Dava’s house at Bizluck Mine while he slept with his wife and demanded cash. The three robbers, who were armed with axes and knives, got away with cash that was stashed in the wardrobe and forced Mr Dava to give them his car keys and drove away.—@winnie_masara