 Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter A FAMILY from Bulawayo’s Nkulumane suburb is appealing for help to raise $8 000 to take their five month-old son for an emergency heart surgery in India. Mnqobi Ndiweni was in June diagnosed with congenital heart disease known as tricuspid atresia and his life’s risk is now at 15 percent. His mother, Sibekiwe Ndiweni said Mnqobi was supposed to be treated a month ago and the delayed treatment is increasing the risk of death. She said Mnqobi struggles to breathe and at his age still weighs five kilograms. “He was supposed to be treated last month and I am appealing to well-wishers to help us raise $8 000 for my son’s surgery. We are not able to raise the money as I am unemployed and his father is a barber and cannot afford such an amount,” she said. “His doctor said the disease was discovered late as it should have been discovered at birth so Mnqobi needs an emergency surgery to save his life. It was only discovered when he was three months old.” Ms Ndiweni said the money will cover the surgery, flight fares and accommodation in India. She said a local paediatrician, Dr Wedu Ndebele said Mnqobi needs corrective open heart surgery early because his life is at high risk and delays keep on putting the baby’s life at stake. “Dr Ndebele at Mpilo said Mnqobi’s large vessels that carry blood from the heart to the lungs are improperly connected. Permanent treatment requires a surgical procedure to switch the arteries to their proper places,’’ said Ms Ndiweni. She said Mnqobi must go through an open heart procedure that requires a temporary stopping of the baby’s heart while a heart-lung machine handles respiration and blood circulation. Ms Ndiweni said there is a fundraising WhatsApp group to reach out to anyone who wishes to save baby Mnqobi’s life. “Anyone with any form of help is welcome follow the group link https://chat.whatsapp.com/JK2By9JU2oE8VdLMjHBgm8t or contact me on 0713 155 700. Those willing to help with money may deposit on ZimHeart Trust Bank Account 500003094991 or direct to Axis Bank Ltd in India Account 004010200630252 or EcoCash Opheus Ndiweni 0773540076,” she added. @tamary98