 Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter TWO Victoria Falls men have appeared in court after they allegedly laced 68 oranges with cyanide and strategically placed them in the Zambezi National Park to kill elephants. The arrest follows a shootout between Zimbabwe National Parks and Wildlife Management Authority rangers and six suspected poachers and the recovery of 13 pieces of ivory, a rifle and live ammunition in a separate incident in Sinamatela near Hwange last week. An alert Victoria Falls Anti-Poaching Unit team quickly moved in and caused the arrest of Mkhululi Nkomo (35) and Noel Mwembe (32) before animals could feed on the poisoned fruits on Friday last week. The two, both of Mkhosana suburb, were not asked to plead to using or disposing into the environment a pesticide or toxic substance when they appeared before Victoria Falls magistrate Ms Rangarirai Gakanje yesterday. They were released on $50 bail each following an application by their lawyer Mr Givemore Mvhiringi of Mvhiringi and Partners. The magistrate ordered the duo to reside at their given addresses, not to interfere with witnesses and report twice a week on Mondays and Fridays at the Victoria Falls Police Station until the matter is finalised. An investigating officer from the Minerals and Border Control Unit who testified in court had argued that Nkomo and Mwembe were not good candidates for bail because they might interfere with witnesses and abscond. In defence, Mr Mvhiringi said there were no compelling reasons for his clients to be denied bail as the investigating officer’s submissions were based on mere speculation. The case will continue on Thursday next week. Allegations are that Nkomo and Mwembe, a vendor and builder respectively, went into the Zambezi National Park on Friday morning armed with 68 oranges they had allegedly laced with cyanide. “At around 9.30AM, the accused persons placed a packet of some oranges on a tree and placed some under another tree. An alert Victoria Falls Anti-Poaching Unit team spotted the accused and monitored them. The two went towards Victoria Falls town and the anti-poaching members followed from a distance until the accused reached their houses,” said the prosecutor. A report was made to the police leading to the arrest of the duo. Some cyanide granules and 65 cyanide laced oranges were recovered. The oranges were tested and it was confirmed they were laced with cyanide. Meanwhile, Zimparks spokesperson Mr Tinashe Farawo said investigations are underway into the Sinamatela shootout where a cellphone handset registered in Zambia was recovered. “There was an armed contact in Sinamatela on August 11 resulting in recovery of 13 pieces of ivory weighing about 200kg, a .375 rifle, five rounds of ammunition and a cellphone registered in Zambia. “Officers were on a routine patrol and managed to pick up footprints of six people. Along the way there was an exchange of gunfire and in the process the suspected poachers managed to flee leaving their loot behind. Investigations are in progress and the net is closing in on the poachers,” said Mr Farawo. He warned suspected poachers that game parks are no go areas as the law will always take its course against any suspects. Mr Farawo said the zero tolerance to poaching is bearing fruits judging by a decrease in poaching statistics. He commended co-operation by stakeholders like the judiciary and communities in the fight against poaching. Last year in October, 13 elephants were found dead outside Victoria Falls after eating oranges allegedly laced with cyanide. @ncubeleon