Left to right Audrey Mawoyo, MultiChoice Zimbabwe representative, Einstein Mubemi, the essay country winner and Toro, a science teacher Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent ST Columba’s pupil Einstein Mubemi has received his first prize of a laptop and decoder for winning the DStv Eutelsat Star Awards 2017 essay writing category . Following in the footsteps of Andile Dube who won the 2016 prize, Mubemi beat Kudzai Kafesu of St Ignatius’ College, won a school fees voucher and a decoder. In the poster category Takunda Nyambuya of Mutare Boys High School won the first prize of a laptop and decoder while Gabriella Makandidze of Matopo High School won a school fees voucher and decoder. The prizes were handed over to each student at their representative school over last week by the DStv team. In the international competition Mubemi lost to Amos Mumbere of Ntare School in Ugandan and Nyambuya was beaten to the top prize by Rasheed Taher of Al-Madrasa-tus-Safiya-tul-Burhaniya School in Tanzania. MultiChoice Zimbabwe publicity and public relations manager Liz Dziva said although no Zimbabweans won prizes at the international level of the competition in 2017, there were winners and runners-up at national level in the two categories of the competition: poster design and essay writing. She said the competition for 2018 was now open. “We were delighted to hand out prizes to students and their schools, and to announce that entry for the 2018 competition is now open, and we hope that perhaps this year we shall once again get Zimbabweans as winners at the international level, as we have done several times in the past eight years,” she said. Dziva said for the 2018 competition students should look forward to prizes which include trips to France and the Caribbean to witness a satellite launch and to South Africa to visit leading scientific institutions. DStv Eutelsat Star Awards are an annual event that promotes science in education and particularly tries to create interest in satellite technology.