Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter THIRTEEN people died on the country’s roads during the just ended Heroes’ and Defence Forces’ Day holidays, police said yesterday. National police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba said 100 people were injured in 141 accidents that occurred in different parts of the country. “We have recorded a total number of 141 road traffic accidents as compared to 119 recorded during the same time last year. We also recorded a total 10 fatal accidents on the country’s roads while 13 people died during the Heroes’ and Defence Forces’ Day holidays. “The number of people injured in the traffic accidents is 100 as compared to 110 last year,” said Snr Asst Comm Charamba. She said this time there were few major fatal accidents recorded along the country’s highways and more within towns. “It is quiet disheartening to note that whilst there were no major fatal accidents recorded along the highways, the recorded fatalities are still a concern to police. It is our fervent hope that motorists will work towards showing good driving conduct so as to preserve lives on the roads. “We express our deepest condolences to those who lost their relatives through road accidents during the holidays. Let us all fight road carnage on the roads,” said Snr Asst Comm Charamba. She said major causes of most of the fatal accidents recorded were speeding, inattention or misjudgment and tyre bursts. Snr Asst Comm Charamba said drivers should not be reckless and where possible must avoid travelling at night. “We’re urging motorists to exercise extreme caution on the roads and adhere to traffic rules and regulations. They should avoid speeding and overtaking in areas where visibility is not clear. “Pedestrians should always be on the outlook for motorists who do not stop or give way at road junctions whilst trying to cross the road. “They should only cross the road after checking all sides and satisfying themselves that it is safe to cross,” said Snr Asst Comm Charamba. “Public service vehicle owners are implored to employ drivers that are of the stipulated age of 25 years and have all the requisite qualifications for them to drive public service vehicles,” she said. Last year, 13 deaths were also recorded during the Heroes’ and Defence Forces’ holidays.—@winnie_masara