 A woman who claims she has sex with ghosts has now revealed she’s in a serious and sexual relationship with one — and they’ve even discussed having children. Amethyst Realm hit the headlines last year when she revealed she’s slept with 15 ghosts since breaking up with her fiancé 12 years ago. But now, she’s decided to take things to the next level and is in a “pretty serious” relationship with a ghost she met in Australia. The ghost, who Amethyst can’t see but believes she can communicate and have sex with, has now returned with her to the UK and their relationship is progressing. Speaking to Australian website New Idea , she said: “One day, while I was walking through the bush, enjoying nature, I suddenly felt this incredible energy. I knew a new lover had arrived.” She said: “It’s pretty serious. In fact, we’ve even been thinking about having a ghost baby. “I know that sounds crazy but I’ve been looking into it and I don’t think it’s totally out of the question.” She believes phantom pregnancies are actually ‘ghost babies’, claiming they don’t go to term because the human body and mind can’t process them. Last year Amethyst appeared on This Morning to talk about the fact that she left her fiancé after he caught her having an affair with a spirit. She left viewers baffled as she claimed to have had sex with 15 different ghost lovers. And a shocked Phillip told her: “I could imagine you’ve got quite a name for yourself in the spirit world.” He had asked her earlier when she had her first sexual encounter with a ghost. She said: “It was about 12 years ago now, I was living with my fiancé and he was working away a lot.” She added: “I started to feel a presence.” Amethyst says that one night she decided to dress in sexy lingerie and hang around in the spare room, where she’d felt the ghost’s presence the most. She said she waited a while before anything happened and feared that she’d put the ghost off by coming on too strong. But she claims that just before falling asleep, the ghost turned up and they had sex. She said she’s gone off men completely and has had sexual relationships with another 14 ghosts. But Holly asked if she’ll feel that way forever, or if she may want children one day. And Amethyst said that she believes she can get pregnant by having sex with a ghost. She said: “I’ve done a bit of research into phantom pregnancies. There’s a possibility that it is a ghost in you but people don’t know how to carry it to full term.” Amethyst went on to discuss how her relationship with her fiancé ended after he caught her in bed with a ghost. — The Mirror