The late Thokozile Mathuthu Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Acting Sports Editor MATABELELAND North Province owes its successful hosting of the 2007 Zimbabwe National Youth Games and the National Paralympic Games six years later to the visionary qualities of the late Thokozile Mathuthu who was the governor of the province. Mathuthu passed on in Harare on Tuesday morning following a long battle with cancer. She has since been declared a national heroine and will be laid to rest at the national shrine on Sunday. In his condolence message, the Sports and Recreation Commission’s acting director general, Joseph Muchechetere described Mathuthu as a no-nonsense and visionary leader who had exceptional leadership qualities that saw Matabeleland North successfully hosting the two versions of the games. “To those of us in sport who  knew her from the sporting side we will attest that she was an astute, no nonsense and a  principled leader who led Matabeleland North with great vision and vigour. She will be remembered for the way in which she led Matabeleland North in 2007 and 2013 when they hosted the Zimbabwe National Youth and Paralympic Games respectively. It was through  her visionary and exceptional leadership qualities that the province managed to successfully host those games and thus in the process putting Matabeleland North on the sporting map,” said Muchechetere. “While we cherish her immense and invaluable contribution to the sporting fraternity and the nation at large, we would like to say to her family may you be consoled by the Lord Almighty. May you take solace from the positive difference that she made not only to her native province of Matabeleland North but to the nation at large. Her works touched many and they  shall forever be cherished. On behalf of the Sports and Recreation Commission board, management and staff and indeed on my own behalf I would like to collectively convey our deep condolences to the Mathuthu family for the sad loss of  a beloved member of the clan,” he said.