 Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent MATABELELAND South Province is set to hold its inaugural Miss Agricultural Show Society Pageant next week during the provincial agricultural show. The provincial Agricultural Show Society president, George Chipengo, said they were also for the first time going to have a traditional dance competition that will see 10 groups battling out for the first prize of $300. The Matabeleland South Agricultural Show is set to run from 16 to 18 August at the agricultural show grounds in Gwanda. “This year, we have two major highlights for our annual provincial agricultural show, namely a pageant and a traditional dance competition. The pageant will be held on Friday evening with 10 contestants aged between 18 and 25 years from all seven districts of the province set to battle it out,” Chipengo said. “The traditional dance competition will be held on Friday afternoon.” Ten traditional dance groups are set to compete for a $300 prize money. The first runners up will walk away with $200 while the third placed will receive $100. Among the traditional groups that will compete is Gwanda’s Bolamba Performing Arts which came third at the Chibuku Neshamwari national dance competitions. Other participating groups are from How Mine, Blanket Mine and Esigodini. Entertainment will be provided by Zimnyama Dance Ensemble, ZPCS brass band with displays from Gwanda Municipality firefighting department. Drum majorettes from local schools will also exhibit. “We want to bring variety to the agricultural show that’s why we’ve widened our scope in terms of entertainment. Last year, we had urban groove musicians performing, but this time around, we want to promote our culture through traditional dance. “We also saw the agricultural show as a good platform for young people to showcase their talents,” Chipengo said. If all goes according to plan, the pageant and traditional dance competition will be held annually during the agricultural show. — @DubeMatutu