Pastor Eshumael Ndlovu Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A PASTOR from Bulawayo bravely fought off six men armed with iron rods and machetes in a road-rage and robbery incident. The gang allegedly attacked him at around 6PM last Thursday at Mbembesi Bridge along the Bulawayo-Nkayi Road. Pastor Eshumael Ndlovu (54) of Mzilikazi Baptist Church yesterday said the six men were in a blue Toyota Runx. “They appeared from some Chinese mining site, sped into the main road and collided with my Toyota Corolla,” said Pastor Ndlovu. He said the seemingly drunk gang jumped out of their vehicle and attacked him, accusing him of wanting to kill them. The pastor sustained two deep cuts on the forehead and complained of body pains. A Good Samaritan rushed him to Inyathi District Hospital where he was transferred to Mpilo Central Hospital in Bulawayo for further management. District Nursing Officer Todd Ngwenya confirmed treating Pastor Ndlovu on Thursday night at Inyathi District Hospital. “I can confirm we attended to a man who was attacked by six men with weapons. He was slashed with a machete and sustained two deep cuts. We transferred him to Mpilo Central Hospital for further management,” he said. Matabeleland North police spokesperson Inspector Siphiwe Makonese said no arrests had been made and investigations were underway. “We received a report of a man who was attacked by six men who injured him with weapons. They got away with his cellphone. Police are appealing to anyone who may have information that may lead to the arrest of the suspects. Investigations are underway,” she said. When The Chronicle caught up with Pastor Ndlovu at his home in Mzilikazi yesterday, he said he had cheated death. “I testify that God is indeed there. Those men intended to kill me without mercy. I have never fought, worse fighting six men at once, and I can’t believe I defeated them,” he said. Pastor Ndlovu said he was discharged from Mpilo Central Hospital on Tuesday afternoon. He said he suspected the men only intended to rob him but because he overpowered them, they fled with only his cellphones and earphones. “At some point I thought of running under the bridge but a voice told me that that was going to be the end of me, as they were going to kill me down there and no one was going to find my body. So I stayed on the road, asked for help from two vehicles which went past us as I wrestled one of them while others tried to push their vehicle off the road,” said the Pastor. He said when he finally managed to grab a machete, but he was too weak to use it. “I managed to flee into the bush where I hid until the gang left leaving their vehicle behind. One of them dropped his cellphone and police identified the owner, a notorious gangster (name withheld) and I am sure they are hunting the culprits down,” said Pastor Ndlovu.—-@winnie_masara