Editor: On behalf of Zimbabwe Information and Communication Technologies (ZICT) a division of the Zimbabwe Institution of Engineers (ZIE), our members and on my own behalf, I write to welcome you, Cde Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa, and express our profound and heartfelt congratulations on being elected the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe. ZICT recognises and appreciates your extensive experience and leadership demonstrated in your previous positions including being the Vice President of the Republic Government of Zimbabwe, as Member of Parliament of the Zimbabwe National Assembly, Minister of Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs. We have no doubt that with this versatility of experience and leadership at both your country and the African continent, you are poised to provide exemplary leadership to the Republic of Zimbabwe especially in fast-tracking economic development, job creation, infrastructure development, regional economic integration, and development and also in sustaining political stability, corruption eradication, peace and security in our country. Your Excellency, ZICT has been the key partner of Government of Zimbabwe since 2015 in the area of Information and Communication Technology with our main focus being the adoption of the ICT policy and Computer Crime and Cyber Security. Over the last decade Zimbabwe has experienced substantial growth in Information Communication Technologies (ICTs), with the period between 2015 and 2016 seeing up to 10 percent improvement. Unlike other sectors of the domestic economy, the industry has remained remarkably resilient in the face of macro-economic instability. ICT is not only one of the fastest growing industries directly creating thousands of jobs, but it is also an important enabler of innovation and development in Zimbabwe. For Zimbabwe to create employment within the ICT sector we have to strengthen Africa’s collaboration across regions through the use of ICT tools for good and thorough collaborative, shared experience that would facilitate infrastructural development in Africa and at the same time, bridge the digital divide across Africa and this can only be achieved with the collaboration with your office, Your Excellency. Your Excellency, I once again congratulate you on behalf of the entire team of ZICT. We feel proud to have you as our President and wishing you continued success. Engineer Jacob Kudzayi Mutisi, ZICT Chairman