Gladmore Mzambi Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Acting Sports Editor THIRTY referees have been invited to attend a high level Fifa funded five- day course at Prince Edward High School in Harare that is meant to equip the officials with the latest trends in officiating. The course will be facilitated by three instructors, Mark Muzengo from Malawi, Ali Ahmed from Somalia as well as Zimbabwe’s Felix Tangawarima while the Zimbabwe Referees Committee vice president Gladmore Mzambi will be the coordinator. “Fourteen of the referees we invited are on the Fifa panel and are automatic while the other 16 were chosen on merit, largely looking at their performance so far this season. I have to state though that the selection of the 16 was not an easy process as our referees this year have been doing a wonderful job on the field but sadly we could not have everyone on board,” said Mzambi. Mzambi, himself a no nonsense and respected referee during his time, said the course is an annual one which every Fifa member applies for at the beginning of the year. “We applied to Fifa who have responded positively and we are obviously indebted to them. Its all systems go from Sunday which will see the participants undertaking a fitness test. The course itself is set to run up to Thursday,” said Mzambi. Refereeing standards in the country have greatly improved since the ushering in of the new committee which put emphasis on professionalism more than personalities as had been the case in the past. On the continental stage the Zimbabwean referees have received accolades after one of the referees, Norman Matemera rejected a $10 000 bribe from Equatorial Guinea side Deportivo Niefang. “You must recognise that there are attempts to fix a match, you must resist those attempts and you must report those attempts. In this regard, we feel proud that our referees did just that. It is quite unfortunate that in this case, it involved a match commissioner and it is a situation which makes you wonder who is going to guard the guard when those entrusted to guard are the guilty ones because the match commissioner was the one being used as the go-between by the home team. What Matemera did speaks volumes of our honesty as a country on such issues.The referee reported the matter to Caf and I believe Caf are already seized with the issue. We believe Caf have adequate machinery to deal with such issues,” Mzambi said of Matemera earlier this year. Selected referees for the course Norman Matemera, Nomore Musundire, Philani Ncube, Brighton Nyika, Salani Ncube, Edgar Rumeck, Thomas Kusosa, Luckson Mhara, Tafadzva Nkala, Thanks Nyauye, Mercy Mayimbo, Stellah Ruvinga, Claris Simango, Faith Mloyi, Zibusiso Nkomo, Ruzive Ruzive, Arnold Ncube, Patrick Kalota, Brighton Chimene, Martin Chivandire, Thomas Masaa, Bekithemba Moyo, Francis Chirwa, Joel Magweva, Kanzvimbo Kanzvimbo, Alois Muzorori, Antony Siyavunda, Magare Mhaka. Edward Mucharambei, Milton Mupfumbati.