Temba Mliswa Esinathy Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter INDEPENDENT candidates vying for House of Assembly seats performed dismally in the just ended 2018 harmonised elections, with only one winning. Of the 244 contestants nationwide, only Mr Temba Mliswa managed to secure a seat in Norton which he first won in a by-election in 2016 , two years after he was expelled from Zanu-PF. Speaking in a telephone interview, Mr Mliswa said it was not surprising that independent candidates performed dismally as most lacked any background in politics and had hoped to take advantage of divisions in political parties. “For one to win as an independent candidate, he or she should be politically established. They should have a history in politics. Most of these candidates thought divisions and factionalism in parties was going to make it easy for them to win,” said Mr Mliswa, a former Zanu-PF Mashonaland West provincial chairman. His said he entered politics in 2000. Commenting on the poor performance, some of the independent candidates said the country was not ready for them. “Zimbabweans are not ready for independent candidates regardless of their individual performance and brilliant manifestos. They vote for established political parties,” said Miss Vimbai Musvaburi, an independent candidate who lost in Bulawayo East. “I know people loved me and never undermined my performance during my campaign but the fact that I was not affiliated to any political party saw me losing to Mr Raj Modi of Zanu-PF. “I will continue working for my community and hold Mr Modi accountable for all people’s needs. I am now joining the MDC-Alliance in their struggle for economic transformation.” Another losing independent candidate in Pumula, Mr Nkululeko Nkala, said there is no culture of voting for independent candidates in Zimbabwe. “People believe in candidates that belong to certain political parties to the extent of voting for candidates that have corrupt backgrounds,” he said. “One of the councillors in my constituency was once arrested for fraud, but people voted him in because he belonged to a party.” Mr Nkala, however, said Mr Mliswa’s victory was the beginning of a brighter future for independent candidates. “We are starting to prepare for 2023 elections now. There is no room for turning back from the needs of the people we advocate for,” he said. Mr Nkala said they hope independent candidates will come up with a structure that will guide them as they prepare for the next election so that they are well prepared and ready to win. Advocate Fadzayi Mahere, who was contesting in Mount Pleasant in Harare, said on her Twitter account that although she had lost, she took away with her life lessons and that she will not give up on her political career. “We consistently said that we would win or we would learn. We’ve learnt that it’s important to take a stand, to speak up, to participate, to innovate, to challenge, to collaborate, to step outside one’s comfort zone and to be the change,” reads her post. Pastor Evan Mawarire, who lost a council seat in Mt Pleasant, was gracious in defeat. “With much respect & admiration I congratulate Jacob Mafume @JMafume of the MDC Alliance on his win of the Mt Pleasant Ward 17 council seat. You ran well my friend and I wish you the best as you serve the people of Mt Pleasant & the city of Harare. Zimbabwe wins,” he posted on Facebook.—@esinathy_essira