 Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A -34- YEAR-Old man from Bubi District in Matabeleland North died after he was allegedly attacked with a machete and knife by his two friends over a missing okapi knife. Nkosiyazi Nkiwane of Queens Mine Compound was struck once with a machete on both hands and was also stabbed in the back and below the right shoulder. Following the attack, Nkiwane tried to run away from the pair while bleeding profusely, but became weak, fell unconscious and died near Queens Mine gates. The incident occurred at around 11PM on Thursday at Bravo Cocktail Bar near Queens Area in Inyathi. Nkosilathi Sibanda (29) of Lusani village under Chief Gwesela in Zhombe, Midlands Province was arrested while his accomplice only identified as Sipho from Esigodini is still at large. Matabeleland North Police spokesperson Inspector Siphiwe Makonese confirmed the murder case. “I can confirm we received a report of a man who was stabbed to death by his two friends on Thursday night in Inyathi. “Police managed to arrest one of the suspects while the other only identified as Sipho from Esigodini is still at large. We are appealing to anyone with information that may lead to his arrest to report to the police,” she said. Insp Makonese warned members of the public against carrying dangerous weapons. “Police issued an order banning the carrying of offensive weapons and that prohibition order still stands. People should respect that and refrain from carrying any offensive weapons. “We urge members of the public to learn to solve their differences amicably and shun violence,” she said. A source that preferred anonymity said Sibanda approached Nkiwane demanding his okapi knife which he had taken some two weeks back. “Nkiwane said he had given it to someone whom he did not mention by name. This angered Sibanda and he drew a machete and he struck him once on both hands. “Sipho joined in on the gruesome attack, produced a knife and stabbed Nkiwane in the back and below the right shoulder. Nkiwane tried to run away from the pair but because he had bled too much, he fell to the ground and became unconscious and died near Queens Mine gate,” said the source. @winnie_masara