 Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau HARARE Athletics Board vice-chairman, Phineas Zinhiva, says they are optimistic of a bigger event this year when they host the Old Mutual Westgate half-marathon in Harare on Sunday. The annual 21km race has become one of the prestigious road races in the country and this year is expected to feature athletes from Kenya. Registration is underway and closes on Saturday. Zinhiva said preparations for the event are in full swing and it’s looking promising with athletes from Kenya expected to spice-up the event. “I can confirm that there are Kenyans coming. So far there are four, two males and two females, who have confirmed that they are coming. But I am told there are others who are still to confirm. “On the preparatory side, the event is starting at 6am. We enlisted our top officials to officiate at that event. ‘’Preparations are going on well, as far as the route is concerned, we have gone to measure it twice,” Zinhiva said. The four Kenyans who have confirmed their participation at this event are Linus Kipwambok Chumba, Abraham Kipkemei Biwott, Jacqueline Nyetipei Kiplimo and Rose Chekurui Kosgei. The prize money remains $3 000 for the top male and female. The half-marathon was introduced in 2011 as a 16km fun run before it was upgraded to a certified International Association of Athletics Federations half marathon in 2012. And it has become one of the major races that attracts most of the country’s top athletes. HAB acting secretary-general, Sledge Chinyoka said the interest from foreign athletes is an indicator of growth. “The event is growing, the prizes are attracting people from outside the country. It’s the first time that we are going to have foreign athletes for the Westgate half marathon. Our local athletes have to step up this time around because they are facing stiff competition because these are elite athletes coming from Kenya,” said Chinyoka. Besides the half marathon, which is the main event, there is also the 10km race and a 5km fun run. Last year Mr Pace Athletics Club’s athletes dominated in the half marathon with Canisious Nyamutsita and Bertha Chikanga emerging winners in the men and women’s section respectively. Their coach Collen Makaza, who is also the owner of the club, yesterday said they are hoping for another successful participation at this year’s event although Chikanga is expected to compete in 10km since she has another race coming up soon in Denmark on September 16. “We are ready to defend our men’s race title as Canisious Nyamutsita is ever ready to tackle any pace of the front runners who may be trying their luck to win the race. He will be leading our upcoming athletes. He is also preparing for the Copenhagen 21km in Denmark. “In the ladies we have Caroline Mhandu, who has been doing well in her previous races. Anna Bungu also an upcoming athlete joins us and Bertha Chikanga is going to take part in the 10km race because she is also going to Denmark,” said Makaza.