 Veronica Gwaze in Lusaka, Zambia ZIMBABWE’S senior netball team got their campaign for qualification to the 2019 World Cup on a good start yesterday when they beat Botswana 53-28 in their second game of the day at the on-going African Championships in Lusaka, Zambia. The championships are serving as a World Cup qualifier as well and for Zimbabwe it’s not just about the African title but earning one of the two remaining slots to next year’s World Cup in Liverpool, England. South Africa and Malawi have already booked their places at the global tournament by the virtue of their rankings. Malawi are, however, in Zambia for the African Championships, taking advantage of the event to also begin their build up for the 2019 World Cup. Zimbabwe’s victory over Botswana came as a boost for the team’s hopes of qualifying for the World Cup.  Pauline Jani was on point with the ring missing only two out of the 25 chances she got in the first half. Defence as tight as it was after adopting the new line defence formation, rivals lost most of their centre passes to obstruction. Nineteen-year-old new girl Claris Kwaramba marked her maiden appearance in fine form leading the Gems to a 53-28 victory. After a close defeat to Botswana at the Pent Series in June, it was a sweet victory for Zimbabwe since the game is key in determining their qualification for the World Cup. Earlier on Zimbabwe had lost 43-79 to Malawi in a game that was preceded by a fallout between the two countries that almost resulted in a fist fight between officials of the two sides and threats were dished out to the Gems. The Zimbabwean side had to file a complaint with the International Netball Federation seeking a withdrawal of the game after coaches felt it was unfair to risk their players to injuries in a game that does not count in the tournament. Gems Coach, Lloyd Makunde said Malawi have an automatic qualification into the World Cup therefore can’t have them in for the first game. “This is our first match in the very important tournament which is the very reason we cannot play against them because we can’t risk our players to injuries over a match that does not count. “Besides that, we had a huge fallout in which their officials even wanted to give our officials blows and they also threatened our players which is the very reason we had to file a complaint with INF, “ said Makunde. In the “dummy’’ match, Zimbabwe side only had two of their first seven players on the court while Malawi had their best team on. The lopsided affair had Malawi celebrating a 79-43 victory. Zimbabwe take on Zambia this afternoon.