Tendai Biti EDITOR — It’s close to a century since the football gods blessed us with Shabanie Mine Football Club (Chinda Boys), from the mining town of Zvishavane. Zvishavane is where the Norman Mapeza-coached side FC Platinum is also housed. At its peak, the “Chinda Boys” oozed class and had in its ranks some of the country’s finest, like Thomas “Chaurura” Makwasha whose awesome combination with Asani “War Vet” Juma was a nightmare to the strongest of defences in the topflight. A rock solid Zvenyika “Zvee” Makonese and a marvelous midfield genius, called Francis “Gweje Gweje” Chandida also charmed the neutrals with his brilliance. Financial troubles nearly resulted in the Chinda Boys becoming extinct, a common scenario in Zimbabwe’s football history, where once vibrant football projects become history. It is sad that most of these clubs were mentioned in the same bracket with the likes of the ailing troubled Harare giants Dynamos FC, which is one of the most successful clubs in the land, inconsistent Bulawayo giants Highlanders FC, army side Black Rhinos and Caps United as well. On a positive welcome note to the football fraternity, we salute and welcome the timely intervention by Harare businessman Evans “Boss Kuji” Kujinga in coming on board and saving Zimbabwe football heritage and history after his donation to Shabanie Mine FC. We hope bigger donations are in the pipeline and his move is going to spark long-term investments and interest by other interested football lovers in supporting our troubled football clubs that are in need of support and assistance. Felix Zonke, Harare Biti must stay out of politics EDITOR — We should put Biti out of politics for a long, long time! He caused the deaths of six people in the same way he and his party leader Chamisa are causing the deaths of many others through sanctions. Biti must do a long stretch of prison time. There must be a law passed in Parliament that says calling for sanctions is a crime that attracts a mandatory sentence of 30 years or more with no consideration of a future Presidential pardon or amnesty. Zanu-PF has a two-thirds Parliamentary majority. That law can be passed in Parliament without any difficulty! We cannot have people who aspire to lead the country destroy it first at the expense of other citizens some of whom are not even interested in politics! Sanctions are an evil form of social engineering that causes corruption to become acceptable. Youths are jobless and taking drugs while young girls are driven into prostitution. There are deaths due to food shortages and lack of medicine, in a way that hinders our growth and development as a country. Truthurts.