Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A MAN from Inyathi in Bubi District who is suspected to have been drunk allegedly fell to his death from a tree while trying to commit suicide. Ndabezinhle Sithole (21) of Badala village 3 had a row with his grandmother before disappearing into a bushy area around 8PM on Sunday. He was found with a loose piece of string around his neck in a bushy area. Police suspect the victim may have slipped and fallen off a tree as he attempted to hang himself, resulting in him getting injured and dying in the bush. His sister, Ms Valentine Sithole (20), discovered the lifeless body at around 2PM on the following day after he had stormed out of their homestead the previous night. Matabeleland North police spokesperson Chief Inspector Siphiwe Makonese confirmed the sudden death. “We continue to urge members of the public to desist from taking their own lives despite the rough phases they will be going through. Seeking counselling is always the best solution to any problems and so we advise people to engage third parties such as police, church elders, traditional leaders and even family members. “We advise members of the public to seek counselling when going through a difficult phase in life than resorting to taking their own lives. We also warn youths to refrain from drug and alcohol abuse because attacking the elderly is definitely a result of alcohol and drug abuse.” A relative said at around 8PM on Sunday, Ndabezinhle returned home drunk and started scolding his grandmother Janet Sithole (65). “After scolding her he stormed out of the kitchen hut and went away. This did not bother his grandmother as she was used to his verbal attacks whenever he was drunk. “No one looked for him as they thought he had gone back to the beer-hall until they realised the following morning that he had not returned home. At around 7AM the following day, Valentine checked for him in his bedroom but could not locate him,” said the relative who preferred anonymity. The source said at around 1PM, Valentine proceeded to Badala Business Centre in a bid to locate him but to no avail. “At around 2 PM, she stumbled on his body in a nearby bush in the area and the deceased had a rope on the neck which was not tight suggesting that he could have tried to hang himself on a tree but slipped, fell and died.” The body was ferried to Mpilo Central Hospital for post mortem and investigations are underway. @winnie_masara