 Paidamoyo Chipunza, Harare Bureau THE International Election Observer Missions to Zimbabwe have condemned post-election violence that rocked Harare on Wednesday and extended their sympathies to all those affected during the skirmishes. MDC Alliance supporters acting on the reckless statements of their leaders ran amok in Harare city centre destroying property, torching vehicles, looting and robbing vendors and pedestrians culminating in the death of three people. The International Observer Missions comprise representatives of the African Union, Commonwealth, Sadc, Sadc Parliamentary Forum, Electoral Commissions Forum of Sadc, Comesa, European Union, Carter Centre, and the delegation of International Republican Institute and National Democratic Institute observer missions. In a joint statement released yesterday, the observers said while people have a right to peaceful protests, they should also observe the law. “While recognising the right to peaceful protest, we condemn vandalism and destruction of property and call on political party supporters to abide by the law,” reads a statement by the observers. The observers also denounced use of force in controlling violent protests. Zec, the observers said, should release full and detailed results expeditiously in a transparent and accountable manner. “We call on the leadership of all political parties and their supporters, in particular the two main parties, Zanu-PF and the MDC Alliance, civil society, faith based organisations, and all other stakeholders to safeguard the integrity of the political and electoral process,” said the observers. The observers said political leaders must also show magnanimity in victory and graciousness in defeat. They said those with grievances must pursue them peacefully through established legal channels. “On 30 July, the people of Zimbabwe went to vote in high numbers, aspiring for a new beginning. We stand in solidarity with them as they look up to their leaders, and all stakeholders to complete this process peacefully and credibly and to ensure their votes truly count,” they said. All observer missions conceded that this year’s pre-electoral environment as well as the polling day were generally peaceful characterised by opening of political space including freedoms for civil society. Zanu-PF has since won 145 National Assembly seats to the MDC Alliance’s 63. The National Patriotic Front only managed one seat while an independent candidate Mr Temba Mliswa also won in Norton. The elections were very peaceful.