 Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter GOVERNMENT has deployed additional immigration officers and established more clearing points at Kazungula Border Post at a time when efforts to upgrade ports of entry to cater for increased human traffic are underway. The small border has been operating with two counters owing to limited staff and working space thereby causing delays. Lately it has been overwhelmed by numbers owing to increased human traffic attributed to calls to the international world by President Emmerson Mnangagwa that Zimbabwe is open for business. According to the Department of Immigration, an average of 700 travellers use the border daily resulting in some delays which raised complaints among tourists. On Wednesday, Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage Minister Obert Mpofu, under whose portfolio the Department of Immigration falls, visited Kazungula border in the company of various stakeholders. These included officials from line ministries and tourism players. Minister Mpofu expressed concern at the state of the border post and said urgent expansion is needed. “We have been receiving reports of congestion and slow processing of visitors at the border. Kazungula has been a small port but suddenly there is an influx of people. “Government is currently upgrading all ports of entry around the country to ensure we meet requirements following a call by His Excellency President Mnangagwa that Zimbabwe is open for business. The response has been overwhelming and Kazungula has been struggling to cope with tourists and business people,” said Minister Mpofu. He said Kazungula border is now busier than the Victoria Falls border and Victoria Falls Airport because of tourists who connect between Victoria Falls and Kasane in Botswana via the border. The large influx of people at the port of entry is also attributed to the successful implementation of the Kaza Uni-visa between Zimbabwe and Zambia which allows visa holders to go on a day trip to Chobe in Botswana. “We brought immigration officers to beef up staff while we look at how we can modernise the border. The technical team will make recommendations on what needs to be done to address the issue. We are happy with the response by all stakeholders as that is good for business,” Minister Mpofu said. —@ncubeleon