Liz Dziva Showbiz Reporter MultiChoice Zimbabwe has warned new customers against using unauthorised installers when setting up their DStv viewing experience, as many of these operators provide unsatisfactory and sometimes unworkable solutions. Liz Dziva, publicity and public relations manager of MultiChoice Zimbabwe said the use of authorised service providers was essential if a successful installation is to be guaranteed. “Unauthorised installers are often fly-by-night taking viewers’ money and then running, leaving behind a trail of disaster,” she said. “When setting up check with us and we’ll advise who’s authorised. We’ll identify installers with a track record as well as a commitment to a quality finish.” The alternative she said was horrendous. “I know a guy who does installations,” “my neighbour did his, I’ll ask him” and — even worse — “I’ll do it myself”, Liz said are some of the comments from new customers when asked what they plan to do in setting up their dishes. “The result is often that these customers have to pay more money to get the job done right . . . the second time. This is a huge challenge,” said Liz. She said many customers who are faced with budget constraints are tempted to resort to all kinds of “cheaper” methods to get their satellite dishes and decoders installed. “They hope this will save them money, but more often than not, we get a call within a few weeks from these customers complaining that the broadcast quality of their programmes isn’t very good, or that error messages constantly appear on their screen. “They feel frustrated and often end up having to pay much more money to fix the problem.” Accredited MultiChoice installers, Liz said are professionally trained by MultiChoice technicians to ensure that every installation meets the company’s exacting standards. “Our installers have solid technical backgrounds and sound product knowledge. MultiChoice also has a system in place in which every installation is logged, allowing technicians to quickly and easily check on the signal strength and quality of new installations. “If the signal strength and quality do not meet our high standards, we immediately ascertain where the problem lies and send the installer back to solve this. This not only ensures our customers enjoy excellent service delivery with limited down time, but it also gives the installer an opportunity to improve his own skills — an important aspect of empowering these entrepreneurs in our communities.” Liz said to ensure their service is always exceptional; MultiChoice is looking to further empower its installers by educating them on issues beyond the technicalities of installations. “Installers are now being equipped with enhanced knowledge around new products like Box Office and DStv Now as well as new technology like the latest PVRs. “They’re learning more about the different error codes MultiChoice uses and how to instruct customers to clear these themselves as well as all the different payment options available to customers in their immediate community.” To get hold of the accredited installers and agents, Liz said people should contact the MultiChoice Zimbabwe national call centre or their branch offices in Harare, Bulawayo and Mutare.