Cde Obert Mpofu Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter MINISTER of Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage Dr Obert Mpofu has mobilised resources through a private developer to upgrade his former primary school in Jambezi into a state-of-the-art institution. Dr Mpofu on Thursday visited the Catholic Church run St Michael’s Mbizha Primary School to assess its state and told villagers that he had secured a contractor. He did not give details of the donor and how much the project will cost. Dr Mpofu, who learnt at the school in the 1960s before joining the liberation struggle, said he was saddened by the sorry state of the school. Built in 1959, the school has three dilapidated classroom blocks, 680 pupils and 17 teachers. Dr Mpofu said two new classroom blocks and an administration block will be built soon. “We want to modernise the school like we did to Sacred Heart Mission in Esigodini. This used to be a big school which was committed to uplifting locals through education but it has gone down. “I was saddened when I passed by recently and I committed myself to look for a donor who I have found and he has agreed to build new blocks. No-one approached me with this idea but it’s my initiative. Some may say it’s an election gimmick but we are not in an election period,” he said. Dr Mpofu said he owes his success to the school. He challenged the community to shun the dependency syndrome and be active in developmental projects. “I spoke to the church and they have agreed as well because we want the school to be modernised so that it can retain teachers. I’ve no child who will learn here but I’m doing this for my community hence it’s my wish that we develop it together. Development doesn’t come from a Member of Parliament but comes from your desire to uplift yourselves. “We need to get out of our closet and embrace development instead of being attracted by food handouts which don’t take us anywhere,” he said. Dr Mpofu said he joined the liberation war with the help of missionaries from the school who gave him a recommendation letter to take to Zambia where he joined Zapu. Parents who included village heads and teachers attended the meeting and appealed for a secondary school saying children were dropping out of school because they have to walk a long distance to the nearest one. St Michael’s School is located in the same premises with Lukunguni Clinic and both are overseen by Sacred Heart Catholic Mission also in the same premises. The clinic will also be upgraded as it requires more office space and equipment. Sister Pamela Ncube who is in charge of the clinic said the health institution serves Chikandakubi, Mbizha and Nemananga wards as well as five outreach points in Jabulani, Chikandakubi, Siamwele, Sikumbi and Ndimakule hence it needs expansion. “We require more office space to be able to attend to many people. We have a shortage of maternity waiting accommodation and delivery beds as we sometimes discharge new mothers before prescribed time,” she said. There is only one delivery bed yet about six babies are delivered at the clinic per month. —@ncubeleon