 Nqobile Tshili/Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporters AFRICAN leaders yesterday congratulated President Mnangagwa and Zanu-PF for winning Monday’s harmonised elections and urged the opposition to accept the results. Sadc chairperson and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa phoned President Mnangagwa early yesterday morning to congratulate him.  He called on Zimbabweans to accept the poll results that were announced by the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec). “President Ramaphosa has appealed to all political leaders and the people of Zimbabwe to accept the outcome of the election and should they have challenges, they must follow legal remedies provided for in the constitution and electoral law,” read a statement from the South African presidency. He called on Zimbabweans to be peaceful and focus on building the country. However, President Ramaphosa expressed concern over the violence on Wednesday that resulted in the death of six people. He expressed commitment to working closely with President Mnangagwa to enhance the historical‚ political and fraternal relations which exist between South Africa and Zimbabwe‚ with particular emphasis on strengthening economic co-operation in priority areas as mutually identified by the two countries. President Mnangagwa won 50,8 percent of the votes cast with MDC Alliance presidential candidate Advocate Nelson Chamisa getting 44,3 percent in an election which had 23 presidential candidates “His Excellency, Mr Cyril Ramaphosa, President of the Republic of South Africa and the chairperson of Sadc has called and congratulated Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa on his election as President of the Republic of Zimbabwe, following elections held on 30 July 2018,” read the statement. President Ramaphosa urged political parties to accept the polls and if not satisfied with the outcome they should take legal routes. The statement said in his telephone conversation with President Mnangagwa, President Ramaphosa, renewed his commitment towards strengthening ties with Zimbabwe. “President Ramaphosa concluded his phone call by expressing his commitment to working closely with the President elect, Mr Mnangagwa to enhance the historical, political and fraternal relations which exist between South Africa and Zimbabwe, with particular emphasis on strengthening economic cooperation in priority areas as mutually identified by the two countries,” it said. It hailed Zimbabweans for conducting themselves in a peaceful manner during the polls. “President Ramaphosa also expressed his concern about the violence that occurred on 1st August which resulted in the tragic death of six people,” said the statement. “In this regard, President Ramaphosa has conveyed his condolences to the families of the victims and wishes the injured speedy recovery.” Tanzanian President John Magufuli sent his congratulatory message through his Twitter account. “Cde. Mnangagwa On behalf of the Government and people of Tanzania, I convey my sincere congratulations on your victory in the Presidential Election of Zimbabwe. Your victory is a reflection of the confidence reposed in you by the people of Zimbabwe in leading them to prosperity,” tweeted President Magufuli. Burundi President Pierre Nkurunziza also shared his congratulatory message through twitter. “Dear Mr. President @edmnangagwa, on behalf of the Burundian People and on my own behalf, I would like to extend my sincere congratulations on your election as President of Zimbabwe. I wish you much success and good health for the prosperity of your country and Africa,” tweeted President Nkurunziza. South Africa’s ruling party, the African National Congress which has a team of election observers here was confident that the result was a reflection of the will of the people. “We want to take this opportunity to congratulate Zanu-PF for having won a majority of seats in the Zimbabwean National Assembly. We also congratulate Mr Emmerson Mnangagwa on his election as president of Zimbabwe,” said the party. Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko also congratulated President Mnangagwa on the victory.  He expressed confidence that the changes which are taking place in Zimbabwe under the leadership of Emmerson Mnangagwa will contribute to the prosperity of the country and the quality of life of people. “I look forward to further development of Belarusian-Zimbabwean cooperation based on the principles of trust and support,” the message reads. — @nqotshili,  @andile_tshuma