Squatter camp dwellers in Killarney, Bulawayo Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle reporter SQUATTERS in Bulawayo have said that they have faith that the new Government led by President Emmerson Mnangagwa will provide decent accommodation for them. Lack of accommodation has seen a number of people turning to squatter camps that include Cabatsha, Trenance, Ngozi Mine, Durnkirk, Willsgrove and Killarney. The squatters live in shacks and are living without basics such as running water, toilets and rely on poached firewood for energy. In an interview, people at Killarney, Ngozi Mine and Cabatsha squatter camps said they have faith that the new dispensation will provide shelter for them. “Last year President Mnangagwa promised decent living conditions for all under a new Zimbabwe. “We believe he will deliver on his promise which must see us moving to decent houses that have the required amenities such as running water, toilets and electricity,’’ said Ms Nomsa Ngwenya from Ngozi Mine squatter camp. Mr Mandla Moyo from Killarney said they are tired of eviction threats and want Government to provide them with permanent homes for their families. “We admit that we are illegal settlers as people label us hence we want Government to legally allocate us houses like other residents in the city,’’ he said. The squatters said they had a right to decent shelter like any other Zimbabwean and therefore expected Government to address their plight in the shortest time possible. “I believe President Mnangagwa’s Government recognise that we too have rights and our children should attend school, have decent houses, access services such as health and facilities enjoyed by other residents,” said Ms Maslin Ndlovu from Cabatsha squatter camp. The Government in March this year promised better and decent living conditions to Zimbabweans under the Command Housing programme. The Government under the programme wants to accelerate housing delivery to address the ballooning housing backlogs in the different cities and towns.-@tamary98