Members of the ZDF go through drills at Bulawayo’s White City Stadium in preparation for the Heroes and Defence Forces’ celebrations Mashudu Netsianda/Paidamoyo Chipunza, Senior Reporters ZIMBABWEANS across the political divide have been urged to put their differences aside and unite as the nation today remembers the gallant sons and daughters who sacrificed their lives to liberate the country. President-elect Emmerson Mnangagwa will address thousands of people expected to throng the National Heroes’ Acre in Harare for the main event. There will also be gatherings at district and provincial heroes’ acres to mark the day across the country. The Commander-in-Chief of the National Defence Forces – President-elect Mnangagwa – will tomorrow also officiate at the main Defence Forces Day celebrations, as well. The main event will take place at National Sports Stadium. Minister of State for Harare Metropolitan province, Cde Mirriam Chikukwa, said all was in place to successfully host these two important events. “All the transport logistics are now in place. We have secured 50 buses for tomorrow (Heroes Day) and 100 for the 14th (Defence Forces Day) for the main events. However, Bulawayo also have five buses and other provinces will have two buses each. “Buses will pick up people from usual pick up points from as early as 6am,” said Minister Chikukwa. Zanu-PF national spokesperson Cde Simon Khaya-Moyo yesterday said Heroes’ Day is an important day for the country to reflect on the liberation struggle and safeguard the purpose of the revolution. “The revolutionary party Zanu-PF urges all Zimbabweans across the political divide to come together and commemorate this day as one people. The independence and freedoms which we enjoy today are national in character and not a monopoly to any section of our society,” he said. Speaking on the importance of the day, 38 years after independence, Cde Khaya-Moyo paid tribute to the heroes and heroines of the liberation struggle for sacrificing their lives to liberate the country from the colonial regime. “Heroes Day, which this year falls on 13 August, is one of the most important days on the national calendar where the nation pays homage to the many fine sons and daughters of the soil who sacrificed their lives for the liberation of Zimbabwe from shackles of colonialism and settlerism, leading to our independence in 1980,” he said. Cde Khaya-Moyo said today’s commemorations were unique as they were taking place soon after the country held  peaceful harmonised elections, which were won resoundingly by Zanu-PF. “Zanu-PF party won resoundingly under the leadership of its visionary and focused leader Cde Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa. The harmonised elections have so far received a clean bill of health from several observer missions across the globe including Sadc and the African Union who have declared the electoral process as peaceful, free, fair, transparent and credible,” he said. Cde Khaya-Moyo said Zanu-PF is pleased with the outcome of the elections and congratulated the party’s First Secretary and President Cde Mnangagwa for the thunderous victory. He also condemned post election violence perpetrated by MDC Alliance supporters in Harare, which resulted in loss of life and injuries. “The party continues abhorring and condemning in the strongest possible terms, the post election violence perpetrated by supporters of MDC Alliance in Harare resulting in the unfortunate loss of lives, several injured and wanton destruction of cars and property. We hope the perpetrators will soon be brought to book and deepest thoughts are with the bereaved families,” said Cde Khaya-Moyo. He also paid special tribute to members of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) for holding true to their national revolutionary duties in protecting the country’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. “The nation continues saluting them for their professional intervention efforts of November 2017 which brought about the current new dispensation. Economic emancipation remains our focus, premised on unity, peace and development,” said Cde Khaya-Moyo. Meanwhile, Zimbabwe Defence Forces director of public relations Colonel Overson Mugwisi said all was also set for the Defence Forces Day celebrations. “The final preparation rehearsals were done and we are now good to go,” said Colonel Mugwisi. Spectacular military parades, parachute jumps, gun drills and combat fitness marches are some of the highlights at the main venue on the Defence Forces Day commemorations. Jah Prayzah and Alick Macheso are also billed to perform at the same venue while Malawi Defence Forces will play Zimbabwe Defence Forces in a soccer match slated for the afternoon. Zimbabwe National War Veterans’ Association chairman Cde Christopher Mutsvangwa said the Heroes Day celebrations were an important event in Zimbabwe’s calendar because they provided an opportunity for Zimbabweans to remember the struggles they went through to recover freedom. He said Nyadzonia, Tembwe, Chimoio in Mozambique and Mulungushi and Freedom Camp in Zambia were stark reminders of a racist settler regime that ran amok pursuing exiled Zimbabweans. “Similar genocide was being perpetrated especially to the rural population across swathes of contested military territory. Zimbabweans were tenaciously determined to master modern warfare to defeat the settler catspaw of a first rate European military power,” said Cde Mutsvangwa. He said all that dying and suffering that brought about independence can only be sustained by a better Zimbabwe where majority of the population enjoys unconditional access to the country’s resources as well as due rewards for their hard work. Cde Mutsvangwa said this aspiration remains relevant especially in the aftermath of Operation Restore Legacy. “The ideals of that generation were being subverted as political selfishness took national centre stage. Economic decay was destroying the promise of rosy and vibrant future,” said Cde Mutsvangwa. He said with President-elect Mnangagwa, hope for a better Zimbabwe is now rekindled. “Local and global business interests are palpably confident once again. Infusions of capital as we reengage erstwhile adversaries and cement tested friendships will see Zimbabwe become a haven of business acumen. Jobs will be created as well as educated labour force engages in producing world class goods and services to meet the most discerning of the global market place,” said Cde Mutsvangwa. Zanu-PF national youth chairperson Cde Pupurai Togarepi said youths were also ready and committed to supporting today’s event. He said for them, Heroes Day commemorations provide a platform to reflect on the role youths can also play in defending a country’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. “Heroes are the people who contributed immensely to the emancipation of this country. All the dignity and pride we enjoy today was made possible through the sacrifice which these people made to defend our sovereignty,” said Cde Togarepi. He said it is therefore important to remember the fallen heroes and gallant sons and daughters of the liberation struggle on a special day like today, and continue drawing inspiration from their good deeds. “As youths, we continue to be inspired by the sacrifices of our heroes and heroines to liberate this country and likewise, we should also play our part and stand firm in today’s Zimbabwe in defence of our revolution,” said Cde Togarepi. Meanwhile, Bulawayo, like the other provinces in the country, has put in place all the mechanisms to ensure that residents join the rest of the country to commemorate the day. The Minister of State for Bulawayo Provincial Affairs, Cde Angeline Masuku, said two events will be held in the city as part of the commemorations. “We have the main celebrations at the Provincial Heroes Acre in Nkulumane as usual and the other events will be held at Lady Stanley Cemetery and Pelandaba. We have widows of some National Heroes who were laid here in Bulawayo who will come and lay wreaths on the graves so that is the second part of our celebrations,” she said. Cde Masuku said heroes like Cdes Lookout Masuku and Welshman Mabhena were buried in the city so part of the day’s proceedings will also involve visiting their graves. Cde Masuku said the day should also be a reminder to the people to maintain peace as this was part of the key objectives that saw freedom fighters taking up arms to fight the colonial government so that Zimbabweans could enjoy freedom. Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association Bulawayo provincial chairman, Cde Cephas Ncube, said war veterans were celebrating the day with optimism that Cde Mnangagwa would address the challenges faced by war veterans. In Matabeleland North Province, the Heroes Day celebrations will be held in Lupane which is the provincial capital while in Matabeleland South all roads lead to the provincial shrine in Gwanda. — @mashnets See Comment on Page 4