 Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A 25-YEAR-OLD Gwanda man has been arrested after he was found in possession of two machetes which is in contravention of a prohibition order against carrying of dangerous weapons that was recently issued by the police. Terrence Sibanda was found in possession of the machetes while at a local nightclub. He pleaded not guilty to a charge of being in possession of a prohibited weapon when he appeared before Gwanda magistrate, Miss Nomagugu Ncube. Sibanda was remanded in custody to August 27 for trial. In his defence Sibanda said the machetes did not belong to him. Prosecuting, Mr Takudzwa Mafudze said Sibanda was found in possession of two machetes on August 3 while at Talk of Gwanda Night Club. “On 3 August police received a tip off that Sibanda was in possession of prohibited weapons at Talk of Gwanda Night Club. Acting on the information they went to the club where they found Sibanda and searched him. “Sibanda was found in possession of two machetes which were hidden under his trousers resulting in his arrest as he was in contravention of a prohibition order against possession of dangerous weapons,” said Mr Mafudze. Police in Gwanda issued a three-month prohibition order against carrying of dangerous weapons in a public place which stretches from June 15 to September 15 following a spate of violent crimes involving these weapons. Officer Commanding Police in Gwanda District, Chief Superintendent Enock Sibanda said these cases are recorded mostly in mining areas as a result of gold rushes and drinking spots. He said police had intensified patrols and were conducting stop and searches for the weapons that include catapults, machetes, axes, knobkerries, swords, knives, spears, daggers or any traditional weapons. He said anyone who failed to comply with this order in terms of Section 14 (4) of the Public Order and Security Act (Chapter 11:17) subsection (1) will be liable to a fine not exceeding level five or imprisonment for six months or to both a fine and imprisonment. @DubeMatutu