 Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter THE Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services (ZPCS) has said its family week is bearing fruit as it is reuniting inmates with their families while preparing them for re-integration into society. Prisoners have also commended ZPCS for coming up with the programme which they said raises their hopes for another chance in life. The family week, now in its second year, started on Monday and will end on Sunday. A news crew visited Hwange Prison on Wednesday and noticed some inmates having a good time with their families and relatives. Members of the Zaoga Church Hwange branch led by Pastor Precious Moyo who is the church’s overseer for Matabeleland North were also at the premises where they had a prayer service with the inmates and their families before donating some groceries. ZPCS officer commanding Matabeleland North Senior Assistant Commissioner Modi Nkomo said inmates are allowed to receive visitors’ everyday of the week at any time until Sunday. “The motive is to allow inmates to interact with their families. One can visit the whole week bringing food to his or her relative “This is very important because once incarcerated, some lose touch with their families while normally children are not allowed in the premises. “During the family week children are allowed in and the time inmates spend with their families is not limited,” she said. Snr Asst Comm Nkomo said being jailed is not the end of the family set-up hence the week allows spouses to plan together for their families. “This is working and in fact inmates recommended that it should be done every year hence we are doing it for the second year running,” said Snr Asst Comm Nkomo. Inmates are enjoying the family week freedom that allows them to interact with their families for as many hours or days as they want. “I have never been as happy as I am today since the day I was jailed. “My wife and sister have been here since morning and I feel happy and comforted. In fact it feels like freedom day because I’m talking and playing with my daughter and family as if I’m at home. “Today is the best day and my mind is free,” said Carrison Masuku aged 24 who was sentenced to 10 months in March this year for a case of theft. His wife Ms Thembelani Ncube also could not hide her joy after spending the day with her husband.— @ncubeleon