President Emmerson Mnangagwa EDITOR — The world reporting of the Zimbabwe election has been mostly the usual blend of individual prejudice and failure to understand Africa. The tragic shooting incident is more typically an example of how African mob violence quickly boils over into extreme response, than a deeply laid plot by the “junta” to turn back to the military rule of Mugabe. From my own meetings with the generals – one in particular — I found them better briefed on what the economy needs to get it back on its feet than many military figures I have encountered in the West.  Then there was an article I read that suggested the whole election was a deeply laid Chinese plot to give them the opportunity to pour money into Africa and create “a new world order”. This is “Red under the bed” journalism worthy of McCarthyism at its worst.  Luckily more sensible voices now seem to be prevailing. Her Majesty’s Government sent a message to ED congratulating him immediately the election results were declared and signalling a UK desire to re-engage commercially. He reacted to this very positively. In a Sky TV interview, he said he “encourages business with Great Britain” and spoke well of (British prime minister Theresa) May and the UK relationship generally. A masterly PR performance by him as he increasingly demonstrates he is in control.  Also the World Bank statement on Zimbabwe last week was positive with a prediction of a five year major re-investment period to get the economy back on track.  Eddie Cross, my very good friend, wrote in his 3.8 blog; “We are not there yet in our struggle to restore democracy to Zimbabwe, but 2018 has been a huge step forward and the process is not reversible. Zimbabwe is on the road to a different future.” Finally, my Zimbabwean African friends tell me that all Chamisa’s huffing and puffing is a typical Shona prelude to sitting around the debating table. I do hope so. From my perspective, I am more positive than ever about Zimbabwe’s future as the “Lighthouse” of Africa. The continent certainly needs one, what with the recent news from South Africa looking worse than ever. Let’s bottle up our historic prejudices, think positively and give ED a chance. Sir Richard Heygate Sir Richard John Gage Heygate, 6th Baronet, is a businessman and writer. As a businessman, he is chiefly known for being part of the team which created the world’s first on-line ATM and for a long career as a McKinsey & Company partner