Econet Wireless chief executive officer Mr Douglas Mboweni Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter ONE of Africa’s largest digital entertainment platforms, Kwese iflix has reached more than 1,2 million active account holders since its launch in May this year. Kwese iflix is a television streaming service jointly owned by the country’s largest telecommunications company, Econet Wireless Zimbabwe and iflix. In a statement, Econet said the streaming service which took Zimbabwe by storm during the June 2018 Federation of International Football Associations (Fifa) World Cup was now the country’s largest television platform with more than 1,2 million active account holders. The figures were revealed by Econet Wireless Zimbabwe chief executive officer Mr Douglas Mboweni as he launched a new promotion aimed at pushing for even more customers. The figures were released at the launch of the Kwese iflix “$1m Promotion” in Harare last week. The promotion aims at encouraging customers to download and use the platform in order to win prizes which will be announced every week over the next three months. Mr Mboweni was quoted as saying Kwese iflix was probably the largest streaming service of its kind in Africa already and was not showing signs of slowing down. “Streaming is the future of television particularly here in Africa,” he was quoted as saying during the launch of the promotion. The telecommunications company has noted that the number of people watching television daily on Kwese iflix was growing in leaps and bounds with traffic recorded on the network suggesting that at least three people were using each account. “We could have as many as three million viewers on Kwese iflix here in Zimbabwe alone. Reports from other African countries like Nigeria, Tanzania, Kenya and Ghana suggest they are seeing similar growth as us here in Zimbabwe,” he said Econet Wireless Zimbabwe has more than 4,6 million 3G/LTE phones connected to the network. One of its key advantages is its huge data networks as well as Wi-Fi hotspots which allow people to watch Kwese iflix. @okazunga