President Mnangagwa Tendai Mugabe, Harare Bureau HEADS of foreign elections observer missions have hailed the country for conducting elections in a peaceful environment, President Mnangagwa has said. They, however, expressed concern over the violence that rocked Harare’s Central Business District that left six people dead after the polls on Wednesday. It is believed that the violence was started by some hooligans believed to be MDC Alliance supporters who were not happy with the outcome of the polls. The heads of the observer missions met President Mnangagwa at his Munhumutapa Office yesterday to give him their assessment of the polls. Speaking to journalists after the meeting, President Mnangagwa said the observers were unanimous that the campaigning period was peaceful and gave him an objective assessment of the situation in the country. “These were the heads of the observer missions that are in the country,” he said. “The heads came together this morning and decided to talk to me and they have given me their view. They all agreed that the campaigning period was very peaceful and they congratulate Zimbabwe and the people of Zimbabwe for that maturity. They also congratulated us for the peaceful voting which happened and they are happy with that. “They say it’s a huge break from the past. The difference is like day and night. That is the word they used. But then they were disappointed by the events of yesterday that is marring the image that had been created as a result of the incident of yesterday. They are hopeful that the Zimbabwean people will regret what happened yesterday and resort to conversation and dialogue rather than to confrontation and destruction of property and life. That is the issue they raised and I am happy that they are very objective in the manner they have approached the incidence of yesterday.” Earlier in the day, President Mnangagwa had conveyed a message of condolence to the families of the victims of the Harare violence. In a statement, President Mnangagwa said those responsible should be held accountable. “I wish to extend my sincere condolences to the families of the victims of yesterday’s violence,” he said. “All human life is sacred, and their deaths are a tragedy, irrespective of the circumstances. I would like to also wish a speedy recovery to all those injured in yesterday’s events. They, alongside the families of the victims, are in my thoughts and prayers at this difficult time. The most important thing for us now is to move beyond yesterday’s tragic events, and to move forward, together. “I am, therefore, calling for an independent investigation into what occurred in Harare yesterday. We believe in transparency and accountability, and those responsible should be identified and brought to justice. “It is also more important than ever that we are united, and commit to settling our differences peacefully and respectfully, and within the confines of the law. We have been in communication with Nelson Chamisa (MDC-Alliance leader) to discuss how to immediately diffuse the situation, and we must maintain this dialogue in order to protect the peace we hold dear. Together, we must lead by example and show all Zimbabweans that peace is paramount. This land is home to all of us, and we will sink or swim together.”