Minister Christopher Mushowe Natasha Chamba, Chronicle Reporter GOVERNMENT is crafting legislation to regulate issues to do with scholarships to study overseas to stop the exploitation of students by agents who take them outside the country. In recent years, there have been reports of Zimbabwean students in Northern Cyprus being exploited with some being jailed for prostitution, theft and dealing in drugs. Government has responded with a proposed law to stop Zimbabwean students from being trapped in poverty and crime in foreign lands, especially Northern Cyprus. In an interview, the Minister of State for Government Scholarships, Dr Christopher Mushowe, said the proposed law is still at the Attorney General’s Office. “The law that the government has put in place stipulates that no agent will send students without registration and that they have to meet a certain criteria. If they give false information they are subject to arrest. “It is of great concern that our children are trapped in foreign lands due to dubious agents whom Government is currently investigating and once caught they will be brought to book,” he said. The Minister said some of the agents are under investigation. The President of the Zimbabwe Students Union Cyprus (ZISU-CIU), Mr Collete Ruzive, applauded the Government for intervening. “The Zimbabwean Government deserves a thumbs up for addressing and trying to manage the sad situation,” he said. According to an investigation conducted by our sister paper, The Herald, a total of about 800 Zimbabwean students who went to Northern Cyprus through agents dropped out of university and are now illegal immigrants. In a general survey of the cases reported, the students are offered 50% scholarships. When they reach Cyprus, the students are then told that they had only paid a deposit and need to cover the full fees. “On arrival in Northern Cyprus, I was given 3-7 days to register and pay annual fees. The fees was 7 000 Euros yet the agent said you pay half,” one of the students said. – @queentauruszw