Dr Joram Gumbo Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter THE Zimbabwe Republic Police has embarked on an operation targeting unregistered vehicles and motorists who are flouting traffic regulations and endangering the lives of other road users. The crackdown on unregistered vehicles, which commenced on Monday, comes in the wake of a spate of armed robberies countrywide as criminals are using such vehicles to evade arrests. Some of them were involved in accidents, with drivers fleeing the scene. Acting Bulawayo police spokesperson Inspector Abednico Ncube warned defiant motorists of imminent arrest. He said unregistered vehicles were synonymous with illicit activities. “We are currently having a campaign that targets unregistered motor vehicles. Our primary target is the pirate taxis that hide number plates and illegally ferry commuters. Criminals are also taking advantage and engaging in illicit activities while moving around in unregistered vehicles,” said Insp Ncube. “The law does not compel anyone to own a vehicle, however once one decides to own one, they are compelled to be within the confines of the law and to follow all rules and regulations associated with owning a car.” Although police could not avail statistics of vehicles they had impounded so far, there are several roadblocks that have been mounted in and around Bulawayo targeting such vehicles. The Chronicle yesterday saw several cars that had been impounded at these roadblocks while officers were also moving around the city looking for such vehicles. Some reckless motorists were playing cat and mouse with Vehicle Inspection Department personnel, picking passengers from undesignated areas. Insp Ncube urged all motorists with unregistered vehicles to put their houses in order before they were arrested. In October last year, Government warned it would impound vehicles that had no number plates, while offenders would either be imprisoned or fined. Transport and Infrastructural Development Minister Dr Joram Gumbo recently issued a statement decrying the disturbing increase in the number of vehicles being driven without number plates. “It has come to the attention of Government that there is an increased number of motor vehicles plying our public roads without displaying registration number plates,” said Minister Gumbo. “This behaviour is contrary to Sections 6 and 10 of the Vehicle Registration and Licensing Act (Chapter 13:14), which stipulates the need for vehicles to be registered and to always display their registration marks and numbers. What is disturbing is that a good number of such motor vehicles have been involved in road traffic accidents, after which their drivers vanish, rendering any further accident reporting procedures and investigations difficult.” He said the operation was continuing until all wanted motorists were arrested. In January, the ZRP arrested 37 drivers for negligent driving after the offences were captured by a video surveillance system in Harare, as the use of the Electronic Traffic Management System gathers momentum. @andile_tshuma