Nelson Chamisa Editor — In politics, one ought not to be so thirsty for opportunity that they drink from every cup handed to them. That is how Mr Nelson Chamisa got poisoned by former President Mr Robert Mugabe ahead of the Monday harmonised elections. In all fairness, Chamisa had managed to gather relatively significant ammunition to combat Zanu-PF, but lost the plot when he picked Mr Mugabe and his much disliked wife, Mrs Grace Mugabe. MDC Alliance supporters had pledged to stand by Chamisa despite his conspicuous lies and vowed that even “akati mvura ichabuda pamapombi ebhasikoro” (that if he had said water would come out from a bicycle pump) they would vote for him. However, the Mugabes factor proved too big to push down their throats as its tremors were felt even in the MDC Alliance’s echelons of power. The Alliance went for the polls with its leadership divided on whether to include Mugabe in their grand strategy to defeat Zanu-PF. So horrible are the memories that most Zimbabweans have for the Mugabe couple. Mere replays of clips in which Mrs Mugabe would squeal and yell at rallies nauseate any sane soul that has the unfortunate opportunity to listen to them again. Lest we forget what once brought Zimbabweans together in the manner that was last witnessed when the country attained its independence in 1980. Both the opposition and Zanu-PF marched in the streets of Harare and Bulawayo to force Mr Mugabe out of power, and the move was applauded the world over. However, Mr Chamisa obliviously thought he could rope in the services of this most hated couple in Zimbabwe to pull the MDC-Alliance out of its deep financial crisis. The Alliance was damn broke like a church mouse such that the Mugabe financial muscle proved too tempting for the youthful Chamisa. He literary forgot that direction is more important than speed as he eventually got nowhere after making this suicidal choice. To afford Mrs Mugabe another chance to brag is not a funny idea at all, both to Zanu-PF and MDC-T supporters. Unfortunately, they went for the polls on such a dry joke from Wamba. Most people made a u-turn on Mr Chamisa after the Mugabe factor gained momentum ahead of the polls. He failed to listen to the outcry over the Mugabes and dismissed it as Zanu-PF’s propaganda. Indeed, the voice of the people is the voice of God. Zimbabweans again rejected Mr Mugabe, this time through Mr Chamisa. As the results trickle-in, the Mugabe ghost is difficult to ignore as it continues to illuminate behind the MDC-Alliance leader. Perhaps someone ought to remind both Messrs Chamisa and Mugabe that Zimbabwe will never be a colony again, not even through him (Mugabe). In this case, he has been an essential tool to block its re-colonisation by elements that are not even proud of the name Zimbabwe. The gods have a funny way of protecting their own, hats off to Mr Mugabe, ED has just climbed a step further in his quest to steer around the country’s fortunes. Caitlin Kamba