Empowering the ZRP with modern ICT policing tools and immediately revising the salaries of the police force. How can our police be effective in investigating high value cases involving millions of dollars, especially when they are offered a lifetime retirement package by criminals if they are to destroy evidence. Chris Ndlovu After all the politicking and mud throwing at each other by political parties, the rest of the world is looking at what is going to happen next. What is critical now is what is going to happen when everything is over. Zimbabweans are tired of promises and are now ready for action and not only action, but action with tangible results. Across Africa we have experienced new regimes promising their citizens golden plates but end up delivering scorpions. That is the norm with African politics. It is time for Africa to change and that change is now, not tomorrow or in other peoples’ financial pockets. Change must be defined by what we do with what we already have in our backyards. If we expect change defined by our external masters, it will never be change to us as a country, but it will be change to our external masters’ financial reserves, of which a lot of political parties are boasting about. It must be realised that as a country, what is needed for the implementation of change is within, not outside. Therefore Zimbabweans are looking for a government that is going to deliver the economic will of the people, not promises benchmarked against foreign influences. We are looking at an economy that is going to be developed by engineers not politicians and lawyers. Politicians and lawyers will facilitate the processes of taking this country to where it belongs and that alone can be defined by the intelligent minds of engineers supported by the political system. To achieve the expectations of the Zimbabwean people, the government should implement the following fast track all current ongoing projects and appoint individuals that are going to deliver the Zimbabwean political economic dream. It should get rid of dead wood with immediate effect, which will see a lot of new appointments and new faces in the political economic arena. There should be immediate implementation of the already appointed Anti-Corruption Sting Team that will vigorously handle all corruption related cases, both pending and already under investigations. This is a serious engagement as it is going to contribute to the turnaround of the economy. Government should implement a fair economic financial empowerment strategy that will see all people starting on the same line of economic development. It should implement a system where all of us start the economic game with equal cards in our hands. No favourite boys anymore. All Ministers who are failing to perform in line with the President’s vision will lay aside and afford capable individuals that are in sync with the President’s vision. Civil servants that have found it a tradition to play at work, have their doors open to vacate their offices, ready for dedicated Zimbabweans that are ready to work for their country, not to destroy their country. The new government should prove to the Zimbabwean population that it is serious when it comes to real economic change with real developements. Zimbabweans will experience the best living standards ever in the history of Zimbabwe across the board as a result. All systems will be switched on and ready to function as intended. When it comes to fighting corruption, it is public knowledge that corruption is costing Zimbabwe over $1 billion annually. The economic cost of corruption supersedes a fully fledged war in a country which will demand a country diverting all available resources to finance the war. It is high time that this corruption enemy be dealt with once and for all, regardless of its colour. Thanks to technology, it is now more than possible to engage in this anti-corruption economic war and get rid of it once and for all. If public information serves me well, that the new government has a zero tolerance to corruption, it is therefore time to start the war immediately. The solution to the corruption scourge will help government streamline the economic play ground to benefit all. We are all going to start on the same line, as opposed to start the economic game, with others who already have more chips in their hands than others. The Anti-Corruption Sting Team must be well equipped with tools to sweep across the corruption-infested fields mainly being: 1) All Local Authority Tender Boards, investigate all projects related to Councillors, MPs and the so called PEPs, (Politically Exposed Persons), who instead of running council affairs, have been busy issuing themselves lucrative council projects in the background. Lifestyle audits to be effected immediately. Initiate a financial link analysis to audit all jobs done in the past, check the relationship of such companies to seating politicians and PEPs. Any politician found wanting and linked to such deals, must immediately face the music. Kindly paying back to the nation. 2) Investigate all public projects that were done in the past, which have shown signs of poor workmanship and poor project service delivery, like roads, public infrastructure, capital equipment procurement for public hospitals and other key economic areas. These practices of using public funds caused hundreds of deaths in our public hospitals because of sub-standard medical equipment purchased using public funds and yet such funds greased pockets of few individuals. 3) Implementation of Performance Compliancy Monitoring System, to help government manage and account for every cent spent or service delivery by government through its employees. 4) Strengthening of the Anti-Money Laundering System, to vet all foreign capital inflows and audit all sources of funds, to avoid the activities of money laundering, as Zimbabwe is now rated as a virgin market, with its new open economic policies. 5) Securing the borders with the implementation of the Next Generation Immigration Identification System, to detect all undesirable individuals coming into Zimbabwe using either political connections or any other means of gaining access to government systems. 6) Empowering the ZRP with modern ICT policing tools and immediately revising the salaries of the police force. How can our police be effective in investigating high value cases involving millions of dollars, especially when they are offered a lifetime retirement package by criminals if they are to destroy evidence. Police are human beings, susceptible to temptation, especially looking at the current economic conditions. But a well-paid police officer is hard to bribe or better still convince them to take a bribe. 7) Implementation of a National Cyber Crime Centre with home-grown application tools that should not jeopardise national security. Any external system to be integrated by Zimbabwean grown expertise to avoid infiltration. 8) Public audit of lifestyles which are easy to do with all the available evidence on our roads littered with high range expensive vehicles, real estates, motor vehicle registration and deeds offices. This will make the work of the new government much easier. We are tired of the rhetoric on corruption, corruption with no action. Zimbabwe was blessed in the sense that, all corruption related transactions and projects are publicly exposed through careless evidence left behind. 9) Implement a corruption investigation monitoring system meant to manage and monitor the actual corruption investigation system, its effectiveness and the elimination of sacred cows and PEPs, using their political power to exploit the country of its natural resources. Once these basic instruments are put in place, surely the 2030 middle income country is attainable at all costs. We can achieve the middle income status in less than 10 years even. Zimbabwe is capable of repatriating all the externalised capital and re-construct the economy at an amazing speed. Zimbabwe has always been a victim of funds externalisation dating back to the late 1890s where according to available evidence the British South Africa Company looted Hut Tax Pension Funds which were charged to our grandparents. These funds according to available audited accounts are sitting at more than four billion pounds sterling, excluding assets and other investment vehicles. This amount of money was never paid back or was it either discussed at Lancaster House, reasons being that neither the late Vice President Dr Joshua Nkomo nor former president Mr Robert Mugabe knew about it. They did not know that one day the sons of Zimbabwe will be artisans and specialists in Financial Data Analytics Investigations in following up the loot that was stolen from their ancestors through next generation financial investigation tools. These tools are at the tip of our fingerprints. This hut tax was collected for a period of 36 years from 1890 to April 1924, which was 10 shillings per hut and translates to £672 per hut a year in today values. Zimbabwe is still legally bound to trace those funds, much so that we now have a legitimate government of the people and for the people. There is proof that with the application of modern technologies of tracing looted funds, which is part of our expertise, we are readily available to assist our government to repatriate and prosecute all the looters, both in the past and current. Looters can run, but they cannot hide. We are looking forward to the new government. Chris Ndlovu is the chief executive officer of Euro Technology Resources PL, a specialist company in Intelligence Actionable Data Analytics Company. He is an expert in Intelligence Political Campaigning Data Analytics. He can be contacted via email duodecimartechnilogies@gmail.com or phone +263 776 574 256