Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls MATABELELAND North’s prime provincial trade exhibition, the Hwange Agricultural Show, opens tomorrow amid calls for support from businesses and stakeholders to work together to develop a strong Special Economic Zone corridor. The show opens tomorrow and ends on Saturday, under the theme: “Leveraging the New Economic order.” Mr Herbert Sansole, who chairs Whange Show Society which runs the exhibition, said the province has potential to grow faster if all businesses and stakeholders worked together. “It’s important to exhibit at the show because it helps to improve on one’s image and standard of performance. It motivates the workers and prove to the community knowledge of their work as well as uphold the image of their organisation,” said Mr Sansole. “Our message to all stakeholders and businesses in the province is that come and be proud of your organisation. The Hwange Agricultural Show is there for you all, it is a provincial major event that you should not miss as it is a platform for us to put heads together for the betterment of the province.” Hwange is within the Victoria Falls Special Economic Zone (SEZ) green belt corridor, which stretches from Kazungula on the border with Botswana and Zambia, covering Lupane, and Binga up to Kariba along the Zambezi River. The implementation of the Victoria Falls SEZ whose thrust is tourism, has started with Government last week launching a $1,2 billion convention centre in the prime resort town. Events such as the Hwange Agricultural Show have potential to stand tall as Matabeleland North’s brand expo if the business community render it the necessary support. Organisers of the annual expo have, however, over the years lamented the low uptake of space as potential exhibitors, especially Government departments and tour operators, have snubbed the event preferring to exhibit at bigger events such as the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair and Harare Agricultural Show. Over the years the expo has failed to record 100 percent uptake with 42 exhibitors taking up space last year. This was an increase from 32 in 2016 and this year organisers expect around 50 exhibitors due to renewed hope on the economy ushered in by the new dispensation. Over the years the show has failed to live up to expectations due to lack of support from Government departments and the tourism sector, which makes the bulk of businesses in Matabeleland North province. Exhibition space is pegged at $4 per square metre for those with permanent structures and $5 per square metre for those using temporary structures. Preparatory work is at an advanced stage with some stands being taken and exhibitors already sprucing them up and putting up their stands. Adults and children will pay $2 and $1 respectively to enter. @ncubeleon