The late Cde Thokozile Angela Mathuthu Nqobile Tshili / Mashudu Netsianda/ Leonard Ncube, Chronicle Reporters ZANU-PF yesterday extended its condolences to the Mathuthu family following the death of Politburo member and former Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs Minister, Cde Thokozile Mathuthu. Cde Mathuthu (61) who was declared a national heroine and will be buried at the National Heroes Acre in Harare on Sunday, succumbed to cancer on Monday. Zanu-PF national spokesperson Ambassador Simon Khaya Moyo said it was not by accident that Cde Mathuthu was declared a national heroine. He described the late heroine as a humble and courageous cadre who played a crucial role during and after the liberation struggle both in Government and the party. “Her declaration as a national heroine by the party’s President and First Secretary Cde ED Mnangagwa, after a unanimous decision by the Politburo speaks volumes of her liberation history, courage, perseverance, commitment, humility, hard work and enviable determination to the promotion of unity, peace and development. She was a total person, humorous and selfless servant of the people,” said Ambassador Khaya Moyo. He said Cde Mathuthu was a dependable leader who left a great legacy. “In wishing her dear husband and family strength and staying power, may her soul anchor and rest in eternal peace,” said Cde Moyo. Cde Mathuthu’s body will arrive in Hwange this morning where a funeral service will be held at the Colliery Stadium at 10AM. The body will be flown to Bulawayo for another service tomorrow at either Amphitheatre or Large City Hall before burial at the National Heroes’ Acre in Harare on Sunday. The late heroine’s husband, Cde Jonathan Mathuthu yesterday said: “The body will be flown to Hwange tomorrow (today) morning ahead of a service at Hwange Colliery Stadium at 10AM. It will then be taken to Bulawayo on Friday where another service will be conducted at Amphitheatre before burial in Harare.” Yesterday afternoon, senior Zanu-PF officials had started arriving at the Mathuthu residence in Empumalanga suburb ahead of the funeral service at Colliery Stadium this morning. First to arrive were Bulawayo Provincial Minister of State Cde Angeline Masuku, Bulawayo senator Molly Mpofu, Matabeleland Secretary for Tourism in the Women’s League, Cde Shirley Mlotshwa, Central Committee member Cde Patrick Utete, ex- member of the Youth League national executive Cde Norah Dube and a few party members from Hwange district. The party’s provincial chairman Cde Richard Moyo, the Minister of State for Matabeleland North province Cde Cain Mathema and Provincial Administrator Ms Latiso Dlamini were expected yesterday evening. A meeting was held yesterday morning at the District Administrator’s Office to prepare for the arrival of the body. The body will land at Nengasha Stadium before being taken to the Colliery Stadium where a church service will be held. The body will lie in state in Empumalanga and will be flown to Bulawayo tomorrow morning for another service. Family representative Mr Norman Silela said Cde Mathuthu’s death had robbed them of a pillar. “Her death is painful because she was our pillar. I was supposed to go and visit her and we spoke on the phone on Saturday not knowing that she was bidding us farewell. We had gone for a church camp meeting when we got the sad news and we had to come back home,” he said. Cde Mlotshwa urged Hwange people to come in their numbers to bid farewell to “their mother.” “She was a great community member at her rural home in Village 28 in Jambezi and we would all turn to her in times of hunger. We thank Government for declaring her a national heroine,” said Cde Mlotshwa.