 Cape Town — Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich is open to selling the club if the £2.5 billion price tag is met, according to widespread reports. The Premier League outfit has previously denied that the Russian billionaire is willing to sell the club. According to the Guardian website, Chelsea rejected a minority stake in the club from an American private equity firm. In June 2018, the London side also declined £2 billion offer from Britain’s richest man Sir Jim Ratcliffe. Abramovich, 51, bought Chelsea in 2003 and has overseen the club win five Premier League titles, five FA Cups and a famous 2012 Champions League final triumph over Bayern Munich. If Abramovich were to sell the club for the asking price, it would be the biggest takeover in football history following the Glazer family’s £790m purchase of Manchester United in the early 2000s. Meanwhile, the Russian has invested heavily into the club during the off-season breaking their transfer record to sign goalkeeper Kepa Arrizabalaga with Maurizio Sarri entrusted with the role as manager. Interest in buying Premier League clubs are increasing as Liverpool recently declined a £2bn offer from an Abu Dhabi Sheikh. *Chelsea defender David Luiz is enjoying the football that manager Maurizio Sarri wants the Blues to play and believes there is a great team spirit in the squad. Under the guidance of Sarri, Chelsea have won their three opening games of the Premier League season, beating Huddersfield, Arsenal, and Newcastle United. Luiz is relishing the experience of playing for Sarri and is confident the team will improve as they get used to the Italian’s style. The Brazilian told Chelsea’s official website: “It’s always great to play football, especially after I was out for six or seven months. “I’m enjoying it a lot, we have a great philosophy, a great manager and an amazing spirit in the team so it’s great to be playing. “We are trying to get points at the beginning because as everybody knows it’s a new system and a new philosophy, so we are trying to do our best. “It’s not easy to win points in the Premier League so if we can get them now, at the beginning of the season, when we are adapted to the style it’s going to be even better for us.”— Sport24.