 Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent THREE men have been arrested for stealing copper cables, transformer oil and damaging a transformer with a combined value of $21 000. Denovan Chikona (39) of Zvishavane, Rodeny Masukwedza (32) and Cruiz Mutero (20) both from Kuwadzana in Harare allegedly stole 3 600 metres of copper cables valued at $11 250, transformer oils worth $3 000 and damaged a transformer valued at $7 000. They were not asked to plead when they briefly appeared before Gwanda magistrate, Mr Obedience Matare facing a charge of cutting, damaging, or interfering with copper cables. They were remanded in custody to Friday after their bail application was turned down. The State opposed bail citing that the accused persons were facing a serious offence and were likely to abscond. Prosecuting, Mrs Teererai Mahohoma said the three men committed the offence on May 13 and were intercepted while they were transporting the loot. “On 13 August, the three accused persons hatched a plan to steal ZETDC overhead copper cables from Tsotsi Village in Filabusi. Chikona, Masukwedza and Mutero drove a Toyota Hiace vehicle to the crime scene and parked about 50 metres from the power line. Chikona tripped and cut the copper wires while his accomplices assisted by rolling and loading the cables into the vehicle. “The matter came to light after a ZETDC senior technician received complaints from members of the community about power cuts. The technician deployed a team to inspect the power line and identify the problem,” she said. Ms Mahohoma said the team intercepted the accused persons’ motor vehicle as it was heading towards the Bulawayo-Zvishavane tarmac road. She said they stopped the vehicle and conducted a search leading to the recovery of 13 rolls of ZETDC 25 millimetre overhead copper cables measuring 3 600 metres. Ms Mahohoma said the team then visited the scene of the crime with police and discovered that the accused persons had damaged a ZETDC transformer valued at $7 000 and had also stolen transformer cables and oils valued at $3 000. The stolen overhead copper cables were recovered while the transformer coils and cables were not recovered. Ms Mahohoma said the trio was also found in possession of tools they had used to commit the offence. She said the value of damaged and stolen property is $21 250. @DubeMatutu