 Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief PRESIDENT Mnangagwa has appointed Professor Victor Ngonidzashe Muzvidziwa as the Midlands State University (MSU) substantive Vice-Chancellor. MSU Director of Information and Public Relations, Mrs Mirirai Mawere, confirmed the development yesterday. She said Prof Muzvidziwa was appointed acting Vice-Chancellor on 1 October 2016 after the then Vice- Chancellor Prof Ngwabi Bhebhe’s term of office came to an end. “The Midlands State University Council wishes to announce the appointment by His Excellency, the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe and Chancellor of all State Universities, Cde Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa of Professor Victor Ngonidzashe Muzvidziwa as the University’s substantive Vice-Chancellor. “The appointment, which was effected after consultation with the Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development and recommendation by the University Council, is with effect from 16 July 2018,” Mrs Mawere said. Prof Muzvidziwa, she said, is an academic par excellence who has vast experience in University and Tertiary Education, which dates as far back as 1983. “In 2004, he became a full Professor and is a holder of the following qualifications, PhD Anthropology (University of Waikato, New Zealand) 1997, MSc in Sociology and Social Anthropology (UZ) 1987, BSc Honours Degree in Sociology (UZ) 1982,” said Mrs Mawere. She said Prof Muzvidziwa is an extensively published scholar who commands tremendous respect in academia adding that he has authored many books, monographs, refereed journal articles, book chapters, conference papers and consultancy reports. Mrs Mawere said Prof Muzvidziwa has published locally, regionally and internationally. “He is an Editorial Board member of several refereed journals such as the Journal of Social Development in Africa and Lwati Journal of Research. “He has worked with reputable international organisations such as WHO, Unicef and USAid. Professor Muzvidziwa possesses extensive administrative experience in university education and management,” she said. Prof Muzvidziwa joined MSU on 27 November 2013 as a Pro Vice-Chancellor responsible for Research and Academic Affairs. He is a former Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the University of Zimbabwe (UZ), Dean of the Faculty of Social Studies (UZ) and also Dean of the Faculty of Social Science of the University of Swaziland (UNISWA), an Academic Leader for Research and Post Graduate Studies School of Social Sciences, University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN), Senior Proctor (UZ), Warden, a two-term Chairman of the Sociology Department UZ, and has served in various committees of Senate and Council at UZ, UNISWA and UKZN. He is an active member of the Zimbabwe Human Factor Chapter and is the Board of Trustees Chairman for the proposed Southern Africa Methodist University.