Nkululeko Nkala Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent Artistes from Bulawayo who were vying for seats in parliament and councils say although they lost out, it was not the end of the world as they learnt a lot from the exercise. Nkululeko “Khuliyo” Nkala was vying for the Pumula South parliamentary seat while filmmaker Nigel Ndlovu was running to be MP for Magwegwe. Prince Mazilankatha Ncube and Lewis Ndlovu of Drums of Peace were in the running to become councillors in the Makokoba constituency. Nkala who was an independent candidate secured 838 votes and was beaten by Sicelesile Mahlangu of the MDC Alliance who got 9 241 votes. Nkala said it was saddening that no one from the creative industry had made it saying this would make it difficult for their issues to be addressed as they will not be represented in parliament. “I don’t see our problems as the youth or the creative sector, which is my second constituency, ending. We still need artistes in positions of government to change their fortunes. “I hope next time there are more of us (artistes) there and that the political situation is kinder for independent candidates,” said Nkala. He however said he has no regrets contesting as he learnt a lot. Asked if he would contest again, Nkala said “definitely” insisting that unless he finds a political party which has the same ideals as his, he would still stand as an independent. “In the event that there’s a political party whose ideals are in line with mine, maybe I might join them. People voted for political parties not individuals as people on the ground had unwavering support for me,” said Nkala. Drums of Peace founder, Ndlovu who was contesting for the Makokoba Ward 7 Councillor’s seat and lost out to MDC Alliance’s Shadreck Sibanda said it was exciting to be in the race. “I challenged myself to do something that I hadn’t done before. It was the same feeling when as an arts group you’re participating in the Chibuku Neshamwari contest. You are anxious to come first,” said Ndlovu. On the outcome, Ndlovu said he had no one but himself to blame for the loss as he left it too late to start canvassing for votes. “What I’ve learnt from this election is that I left it too late to campaign. I put up posters on July 14, a few days before people took to the polls. “By that time, people had already made up their minds on who they wanted to vote for so for us who were alternatives, we hadn’t made any traction,” said Ndlovu. He said although he lost, he would continue working with the people of Makokoba.