Miss Tourism Zimbabwe Bulawayo, Anelisiwe Ndebele, with some of the homeless people Showbiz Correspondent MISS Tourism Zimbabwe Bulawayo, Anelisiwe Ndebele, believes the title has made her grow both in her career on the ramp and as a person as she prepares to represent the city in the national finals. Ndebele was crowned last month during a glitzy affair at a city hotel. The law student and professional model at Open Eye Studio Modelling Agency took time from her busy schedule and was on the streets of Bulawayo giving away socks to the homeless. Ndebele, who is nearly a month into her reign as MTZ Bulawayo queen, said she felt like showing some love to the homeless. “I feel I’ve been highly favoured with a title that will enable me to continue touching people’s lives in any way I can. Miss Tourism Bulawayo has helped me grow. My career has also advanced because I’ve added this title to my achievements. I’m working as hard as I can and with all the hard work I’m putting in, I can only pray to God for victory on the day of the finals,” said Ndebele. “It was mainly focused on the people living on the streets along 11th Avenue and Fife Street in Bulawayo. I gave them a few pairs of socks, about 20. I just want to share a little love and spread it to those less fortunate than us,” said Ndebele. Today Ndebele is taking a group of school children to Khami Ruins on the outskirts of Bulawayo as part of her ambassadorial role for the young to know their heritage and at the same time see a tourist attraction. “My main objective is to educate the young about one of our many heritage sites in Zimbabwe. At Khami Ruins there’s so much history and its one of our tourist attractions. It’ll be extra helpful to learn why Bulawayo is such an amazing place,” said Ndebele. The donations and trip are all part of her preparations for the national finals to be held in Bulawayo. However, it has not been smooth sailing as all her preparations are self-funded. “The trips, donations and all are mostly self-funded. The trip to Khami Ruins, is from my pocket. I’ll be trying to engage players in the tourism industry in Bulawayo to help sponsor educational trips in the city,” said Ndebele. “So it hasn’t been easy but that doesn’t deter me, instead it spurs me on to do great and represent the city and possibly the country.”