Cde Simon Khaya Moyo Nqobile Tshili/Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporters GOVERNMENT and the ruling Zanu-PF party yesterday urged Zimbabweans to remain peaceful and embrace the Constitutional Court’s verdict to be delivered today following MDC Alliance presidential candidate Mr Nelson Chamisa’s challenge to President-elect Emmerson Mnangagwa’s electoral victory. Mr Chamisa lost the 2018 presidential elections after garnering 44,3 percent of the votes to President-elect Mnangagwa who amassed 50,8 percent (before the figure was revised to 50.67 percent) leading to the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission declaring him the winner. However, the MDC Alliance leader is disputing the results and has approached the Constitutional Court seeking relief. Today at 2PM, the Constitutional Court will deliver its ruling on the matter after hearing arguments from the interested parties on Wednesday during a high profile case that was beamed live on ZBC television. Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Minister and Zanu-PF national spokesperson Ambassador Simon Khaya Moyo yesterday said the nation should remain calm and accept the ConCourt ruling. “As the ConCourt delivers its verdict, let the nation embrace the outcome with calm, decency, sobriety and genial composure,” said Ambassador Khaya Moyo. “The focus should be on unity, peace, non-violence and promotion of irreproachable national conduct. We are one family, one people, and one nation. Forward with economic emancipation.” He said global attention is on Zimbabwe and the nation should take advantage of the prevailing peace to stimulate economic growth. “The unity and peace evident throughout the country is highly commendable inclusive of the admirable tranquility displayed by the citizenry in general throughout yesterday’s Constitutional Court proceedings,” Ambassador Khaya Moyo said. “The world is watching with glee. This glorious moment must not be squandered but extend to the future and remain the nation’s political centre.” He said Zanu-PF supporters’ mature behaviour during the election season has made President Mnangagwa proud. “The revolutionary party, Zanu-PF, under the leadership of its President and First Secretary Cde ED Mnangagwa, is extremely proud of the manner its members encompassing all structures have conducted themselves before and post the July 30, 2018 harmonised elections,” said Ambassador Khaya Moyo. Meanwhile, The Director of the Zimbabwe Church Alliance, Reverend Useni Sibanda, yesterday said politicians and the general public should remain peaceful and calm as the nation eagerly awaits the ConCourt ruling this afternoon. In an interview, Rev Sibanda encouraged signatories of the Runyararo /Ukuthula Peace Pledge to abide by their promise to remain peaceful during the pre and post election period. The pledge was signed by leaders of political parties before the July 30 harmonised elections. ‘’Politicians should bear in mind that the peace pledge stated that they pledge to be peaceful even in the post election period. Peace builds a nation and violence is a reproach to mankind,’’ he said. Before the harmonised elections, political parties countrywide signed the Runyararo/Ukuthula Peace Pledge as they pledged to be peaceful during and after elections. Rev Sibanda said the peace pledge remains a promise to God and the nation hence signatories should remain loyal to it. He encouraged Zanu-PF and MDC Alliance supporters to accept the ConCourt ruling. ‘’We encourage both parties to accept the final judgement of the Constitutional Court and to remember that at the end of the day, we are all Zimbabweans looking forward to a brighter, peaceful and just nation,’’ Rev Sibanda said. He said the struggle of a nation is not to see who is the political giant but to see where the nation is going after someone is declared a winner.—@nqotshili —@tamary98