Mr Livard Philemon Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls THE Judicial Service Commission (JSC) has appointed senior magistrate Mr Livard Philemon as head of Matabeleland North province. The JSC has separated Bulawayo and Matabeleland North provinces with the latter standing as an independent judiciary province. Mr Enias Magate has been the magistrate-in-charge of Matabeleland North province incorporating Bulawayo and was based at Bulawayo Magistrates’ Court. Mr Magate will now oversee Bulawayo while Mr Philemon who was senior magistrate in Kwekwe will now head Matabeleland North while stationed in Hwange. The JSC has also transferred a number of senior magistrates. JSC acting secretary Mr Walter Chikwana said Matabeleland North provincial office will be stationed in Hwange until the commission constructs a provincial court building in Lupane. “We have separated Bulawayo from Matabeleland North and appointed Mr Livard Philemon as the provincial head-in-charge based in Hwange. The province will oversee Binga, Hwange, Lupane and Victoria Falls courts. Ideally the provincial head should be based in Lupane but because there are no premises he will be based in Hwange,” said Mr Chikwana. He said JSC was finalising logistics to furnish the provincial office with equipment and staff. Mr Chikwana said the appointment of Mr Philemon, who originally hails from Matabeleland North was in line with JSC’s deliberate policy to bring justice closer to the people and deploy staff in areas they are originally from. He said this enhances supervision of both human resource and courts. “Management and supervision of courts becomes easier. Previously our courts were being managed from Bulawayo and now we are bringing justice closer to people as we also improve our operations,” he said. Mr Chikwana said Mrs Rose Dube, who has been resident magistrate in-charge of Hwange magistrates’ courts has been promoted to head Kwekwe district while Ms Charity Maphosa, has been transferred from Tredgold to become provincial head in the Midlands. Regional magistrates Mrs Sibonginkosi Mkandla and Mrs Phathekile Msipha have also been moved from Masvingo and Gweru respectively to become regional magistrates in Bulawayo. Mr Chikwana said those that had been moved were being rewarded for their hard work. Meanwhile, Mr Chikwana said plans are underway to open a permanent High Court in Matabeleland North after securing land from Lupane Local Board. @ncubeleon