Mr Nelson Chamisa Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent THE MDC Alliance wants its presidential election challenge to be broadcast live on national television when the case is heard before the Constitutional Court on Wednesday next week. MDC Alliance Presidential candidate Advocate Nelson Chamisa is disputing President-elect Emmerson Mnangagwa’s electoral victory after the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission declared him a winner following July 30 harmonised elections. Adv Chamisa posted 44,3 percent of the votes while President-elect Mnangagwa won the polls by 50,8 percent in an election which had 21 other candidates. According the country’s laws a candidate is declared a winner if he or she posts 50 percent plus one vote. MDC-T secretary general Mr Douglas Mwonzora yesterday said Adv Chamisa’s lawyers have requested that the case be broadcast live when it’s been heard before the courts. “Our lawyers have made a request (for live broadcast) to the Chief Justice because this is a matter of national and international importance. They made a request to the Chief Justice that it is in the interest of the people of Zimbabwe, so that they are able to follow the process. The Chief Justice then said they will have to make that application before the full the bench. For me it is good for transparency,” said Mr Mwonzora. He said their lawyers believe that they have a good case. Zanu-PF Secretary for Legal Affairs Cde Paul Mangwana said President-elect Mnangagwa’s team is ready to teach Adv Chamisa a lesson about constitutional matters. “It will be heard next week at the Constitutional Court at 10AM,” he said. In regard to Adv Chamisa’s application for a live broadcast of the case, Cde Mangwana said: “They made that application in court verbally and the Chief Justice said they must do their application in writing and serve on us so that we can express our opinion on it. So no decision has been made as yet on whether the matter will be broadcast live or not.” He said President-elect Mnangagwa’s legal team was satisfied with proceedings so far. “We have prepared very well and our lawyers are raring to go. We will teach them one or two constitutional law lessons on the day in question,” he said. — @nqotshili.