 Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A 52-YEAR-OLD Kezi man has been sentenced to 20 years imprisonment for raping his 11-year-old daughter twice. The man from Tshelanyemba Village who cannot be named for ethical reasons had denied the allegations claiming that his daughter was raped by goblins. He was convicted by Gwanda regional magistrate, Mr Mark Dzira after his witnesses refused to come and testify on his behalf in court. In passing judgement Mr Dzira said the State had provided overwhelming evidence against the man. “The complainant produced convincing evidence to support the allegations that you raped her twice. There is no bad blood between you and your daughter and therefore there is no reason for her to lie that you raped her. From the evidence that has been brought before the court it’s also clear that she wasn’t influenced by anyone to fabricate these allegations against you. “Rape is a serious offence which a child can’t just fabricate. You tried to give an excuse that the complainant was raped by goblins but the court doesn’t buy this story. The court is satisfied that the State produced enough evidence and therefore you are guilty as charged,” he said. Mr Dzira rebuked the man for raping his own daughter when he was expected to be the one protecting her from harm. Prosecuting, Mr Pearson Chekeya said the man raped the juvenile who is a Grade Six pupil at Tshelanyemba Primary School on April 13 and on April 14. “On 13 April the juvenile went to visit her father at his place of residence as they don’t stay together. Her father invited her to his bedroom and whilst they were there raped her once and warned the juvenile against reporting the matter,” said Mr Chekeya. “On the following day the juvenile went to church with her father and on their way back he ordered her to accompany him to a nearby bush to collect firewood. While there the man went on to rape his daughter once and then ordered her to proceed home.” He said the matter came to light on April 21 after the complainant’s cousin noticed that the juvenile was having difficulties in walking. Mr Chekeya said the juvenile then revealed to her cousin what her father had done to her. The matter was reported to the police resulting in the man’s arrest. In his defence the man said he was not with his daughter on the dates that he was alleged to have raped her. The man said his daughter was raped by goblins as he had recently received a report that they had attacked her in the middle of the night. He said he was surprised to see police arrive at his home telling him that he was under arrest for raping his daughter. @DubeMatutu