 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter SOUTHERN Region Division One Soccer League side Talen Vision harbour big dreams of transforming their club through astute governance, following their participation at a high-level administration course last week in South Africa. Talen Vision’s president Khumbulani Nkomo and the club’s chief executive officer Juma Phiri joined sports administrators from South Africa, Zimbabwe and Botswana at a three-day workshop organized by South Africa’s ABS International, a leading business conference networking organization at Sandton. Zimbabwe’s other representatives at the workshop were Dynamos chairman Solomon Sanyamandwe and Caps United’s Nhamo Tutisani. Nkomo said his club learnt a lot from the workshop and said the challenge is implementing what they learnt in South Africa. “It was an eye-opening workshop. Capacity development is key for any manager and I believe what we learnt will go a long way in helping Talen Vision achieve its long-term goals of being a club of choice, developing and exporting talent. If we practise good governance, we should be able to attract strategic partners as well as create networks in and outside the country who can help us achieve those goals,” said Nkomo. An official from University of Pretoria identified as Burger presented a topic on appropriate management practices for excellence in the South African sport and recreation industry. He also delivered a plenary on the best practices of good governance in sport management. Justin Madzika, a renowned investment banker and financial guru presented on leveraging sports tourism in Africa and also covered on sport insurance. Participants also covered topics like implications for sports management and governance, practical knowledge of different strategies available for negotiation, strategic planning skills, IT management in sport and coaching for growth of people and their sport. “The symposium will benefit us by knowing how to run our club in a professional way. This is not to say we are not professional, but we learnt new ways of managing sport. We strive to run Talen Vision in a professional manner as well as create networks that benefit the club and the players,” said Phiri. @ZililoR