 Chelsea are set to hit Thibaut Courtois with a £200 000 fine after the Belgian failed to return to pre-season training this week. After reaching the final weekend of the World Cup with Belgium, Courtois was due to return to Cobham on Monday but failed to turn up in a desperate bid to force a move away from Stamford Bridge. The fine consists of two weeks’ wages for the goalkeeper, who is thought to be on a £100 000-per-week deal. The Blues have opened disciplinary procedures against Courtois who remains in Belgium having also failed to turn up on yesterday morning. Courtois is hoping to force through a move to Real Madrid but Chelsea will not let the keeper leave for less than £45million. However, the 26-year-old has just 12-months to run on his current deal and Chelsea may have to compromise on a fee or face the risk of losing a prized asset on a free transfer next summer. Maurizio Sarri will also be keen to have a replacement lined up before tomorrow’s 5pm deadline. Jan Oblak has been targeted as a replacement, with the Blues even tempted to break the world record fee for a goalkeeper by triggering the Atletico Madrid stopper’s £89million release clause. Courtois holds a desire to return to his family in Madrid, where he featured before replacing Petr Cech as No 1 at Stamford Bridge. He spent three seasons on loan at Atletico after joining Chelsea back in 2011, impressing as the club won La Liga and the Europa League, before finishing runners-up in the Champions League in 2014. Meanwhile,  Athletic Bilbao goalkeeper Kepa Arrizabalaga is set to join Chelsea for £80 million, according to Spanish media reports yesterday. The 23-year-old, who has been capped once by Spain, would be the most expensive goalkeeper in history and the replacement for Courtois, who is expected to leave Stamford Bridge for Real Madrid. Sports daily Marca reported that Chelsea would meet the £80-million-euro release clause in Kepa’s contract, beating the record transfer fee of £75 million euros which Liverpool paid Roma for Brazilian Alisson earlier in the close season. “The British club have chosen Kepa as a replacement for Courtois, who in the next few hours will become a new Real Madrid player,” wrote Marca. Marca’s competitor AS said that “negotiations are very close to closing”. “If everything goes according to plan, Kepa will travel to London to be presented as a new Blues player on Wednesday (today) or early Thursday. (tomorrow)”. Catalan newspaper Mundo Deportivo also reported that Kepa would be signing for Maurizio Sarri’s Chelsea. Kepa has played 53 times in La Liga for Bilbao over the last two seasons, and made his international debut in a 5-0 friendly win over Costa Rica in November 2017. He was also in the Spain squad for the recent World Cup in Russia as back-up to David De Gea, but did not get any playing time. — AFP-Mainlonline.