Nelson Chamisa Tendai Mugabe, Harare Bureau IN a bid to influence the outcome of the July 30 harmonised elections, the Open Society Initiative for Southern Africa (OSISA) released millions of dollars to opposition functionaries  — part of which was used to sponsor the violence that rocked Harare’s Central Business District on Wednesday. OSISA, which claims to be an institution committed to deepening democracy, protecting human rights and enhancing good governance in Africa, channelled the funds to opposition functionaries in Zimbabwe through the Electoral Resource Centre. Principally, MDC-Alliance was the biggest beneficiary of OSISA’s deep purse that was used during the campaign trail and some was reserved for post-election violence. Several organisations within the opposition rank and file and some influential personalities also benefited from the money. A former employee at the US Embassy in Harare (name withheld) who resigned ahead of the investigation of the donor fund abuse at the embassy, played a key role in pushing the money from OSISA to the ERC. He also played an advisory role to the MDC Alliance president Mr Nelson Chamisa and accompanied one of the MDC-Alliance principals, Mr Tendai Biti during his last trip to the United States. The former US Embassy employee was key in arranging meetings between Mr Biti and key US interlocutors, much to the chagrin of old and traditional MDC-T activists who felt elbowed. These included the likes of Messrs James Maridadi, Luke Tamborinyoka and Douglas Mwonzora Our Harare Bureau is reliably informed that part of the OSISA money went to church organisations and a good number of political non-governmental organisations. A prominent Harare lawyer, who is advising Mr Chamisa, was also a recipient of the OSISA fat purse and is now well-heeled to the extent he may not want to set foot in a court room for a year. The top lawyer was promised a position in government if Mr Chamisa wins the elections. Ironically, the same lawyer was the military advisor during Operation Restore Legacy. Part of the money went to a group of scholars who include Philani Zamchiya, Pedzisai Ruhanya and Mr Chamisa’s spokesperson, Dr Nkululeko Sibanda. Mr Jim Kunaka, who is a member of the break away National Patriotic Front, also got a chunk of the money and was responsible for the mayhem at the Simon Muzenda Bus Terminus, including the torching of vehicles at the Zanu-PF provincial offices. Sources privy to classified opposition information intimated to our Harare Bureau yesterday that the OSISA funded groups and individuals were now in a dilemma on their next move. “Following the abortive demos, the OSISA sponsored groups are now at sixies and sevens, with many contemplating to leave the country, others reaching out to State organs and volunteering information or adopting a wait and see approach,” said the source. The source said part of the OSISA money was used to pay a sizeable number of journalists in the private media. While the money influenced individual journalists, it did not influence the proprietors, who steered clear of the politics that OSISA was pushing. On Wednesday, part of the money was used to buy intoxicants for the youths who were used in the illegal demonstrations that resulted in the death of six people. Another source within the country’s security structure said: “Maybe we opened the door for international observers too wide, thereby admitting negative elements who include George Soros’ OSISA outfit. “As I speak to you right now, they have been accredited to observe the elections and they are still in the country, but the system is watching them. A key member who is in OSISA who is playing an ethnic political card is the young Sipho Malunga, who is son to the late national hero, Cde Sydney Malunga.”