Simon Nyadundu Locadia Mavhudzi, Midlands Correspondent Government has stepped up efforts to contain the typhoid outbreak in Gweru and has so far seconded more nurses from Kwekwe and Silobela hospitals to assist at typhoid treatment camps that have been established in Mkoba suburb. Speaking during a typhoid taskforce response meeting in Gweru, Midlands Provincial Medical Director, Dr Simon Nyadundu said they had so far seconded more nurses from Kwekwe and Silobela hospitals as the burden of typhoid continues to escalate “We have set up treatment hospitalisation camps at Mkoba Poly Clinic and at Mkoba 1 Clinic,” he said. “To boost our staff we have seconded nurses from Kwekwe and Silobela hospitals. From the outlook of the situation we may need to second more staff.” Dr Nyadundu said Gweru Provincial Hospital is overwhelmed by suspected cases of typhoid with people coming not only from Mkoba but other suburbs as well. “The situation is escalating on daily basis as we receive more suspected cases of typhoid,” he said. “Only yesterday, we attended to 41 people with suspected typhoid at Gweru Provincial Hospital. We have so far treated a total of 1 313 cases of suspected typhoid.” Dr Nyadundu said they had recruited 100 volunteers who were assisting in health education and health promotion in worst affected areas in Mkoba suburb. “We are working with 100 volunteers whom we trained on basic health and hygiene and they are spreading messages in all affected areas,” he said. “We are appealing for funds to assist the volunteers with airtime allowances and basic subsistence as we are  operating on a zero budget.” The typhoid taskforce response team has also rebranded 40 commuter omnibuses to spread hygiene messages. Meanwhile, the Government has given Gweru vendors until today to vacate the streets and pavements in the Gweru City’s Central Business District (CBD) as it moves to curb the spread of typhoid outbreak, which has so far claimed seven lives. Speaking during a tour of health institutions by Health and Child Care Minister Dr David Parirenyatwa, Minister of State for Midlands Provincial Affairs Owen Ncube said Government, together with the Gweru City Council had ordered vendors to vacate the streets. Minister Ncube said the province’s Joint Operation Command (JOC) had been notified of the development and were requested to provide assistance if needed.