Edmore Chirambadare Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWEAN midfielder, Edmore Chirambadare, has signed a one-year deal with newly promoted South African National First Division side Maccabi, with the hope of reviving his career following his Kaizer Chiefs’ exit. The former Chicken Inn midfielder, who joined the Soweto giants in 2016 on a three-year deal, was released with a year left on his contract at the end of the 2017/18 season. Chirambadare found himself in the cold at the beginning of the month when Kaizer Chiefs announced that they were terminating his contract with those of Keagan Buchanan, Tsepo Masilela, William Twala and Sibusiso Khumalo. Chirambadare struggled to explode at Kaizer Chiefs where he was voted the club’s Most Improved Player in his maiden season. He joined Kaizer Chiefs alongside striker Mitchell Katsvairo, who has since joined Caps United in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League after being shipped out of the Naturena-based club to Tanzania last year. Michael Ngobeni, Chirambadare’s manager, who recently facilitated Warriors’ midfielder Khama Billiat’s move from Mamelodi Sundowns to Kaizer Chiefs, said the winger completed his Maccabi deal yesterday and is eager to reignite his career. “We have found a home for Eddie (Chirambadare) and he is now a Maccabi player. He joins the team on a one-year deal. He is very excited about the move and is looking forward to the new challenge. “He could have stayed in the PSL, but missed out as some of the clubs had already filled their foreign quota slots. Eddie is a brilliant and quality player who I believe deserves another chance to blossom. Changing an environment will certainly bring the best out of him,” said Ngobeni. Chirambadare’s handler knocked at Baroka, Maritzburg United, Golden Arrows and Black Leopards’ doors with the hope of getting a deal for the player. Black Leopards coach Joel Masutha said the club decided against signing Chirambadare because of the foreign quota issue. Chirambadare, who managed just five league appearances in the 2017/18 season for Chiefs, trained with Lidoda Duvha, but left the Absa Premiership newcomers after the club failed to get Djunga Munganga registered as a local player, thereby opening a slot for the Zimbabwean. — @ZililoR.