Minister Sibusiso Moyo Lovemore Ranga Mataire in Windhoek, Namibia Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Dr Sibusiso Moyo has said Government regrets events that led to the unnecessary loss of lives after MDC Alliance supporters turned violent on August 1. In an interview on the sidelines of the 38th Sadc Summit underway in Windhoek, Dr Moyo said the August 1 incident is not reflective of the true Zimbabwean character. “Let me assure you that the President and his Cabinet including the entire new dispensation actually regrets the incident of 1 August because that is not characteristic of Zimbabwe. “The Zimbabwe we want is the Zimbabwe that demonstrated itself on the 30th of July. What came out on the first of August is not the Zimbabwe we want and has never been part of our embedded values,” said Dr Moyo. The Minister said Zimbabweans treasure life and are not violent people. Dr Moyo said it was unfortunate that some media organisations wanted to characterise the whole Zimbabwean nation with a “black                                             paint”. He said Zimbabwe, like all other countries will overcome its challenges and a day’s regrettable incident will not affect much of the positive strides undertaken by the new dispensation. “We are still seized with the re-engagement processes which we had undertaken several months ago so that we reposition the product which is called Zimbabwe as an attractive product.” Dr Moyo said most investors are still committed in assisting Zimbabwe in revitalising its economy. He said it was untrue that some potential investors cancelled or reversed agreed investment deals as a result of the unfortunate incident. Turning to deliberations of the Council of Ministers meeting at 38th Sadc summit, Dr Moyo said the most encouraging aspect of the summit was the keenness of member states in ensuring the implementation of agreed protocols. “The deliberations have so far covered a wide range of issues concerning our region. You are aware that the theme of the conference is to do with infrastructure and youth empowerment,” Dr Moyo said. He said infrastructure and youth empowerment are components of the industrialisation of the region. Other issues deliberated by the Sadc Council of Ministers include governance, legal matters and finances of the region.