 Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter UNILEVER through its brands, Lifebuoy and Domestos, has engaged in a campaign to educate people on health and sanitation to fight the typhoid outbreak in Gweru. The disease has claimed eight lives in the city since its declaration on August 6 while a total of 1 506 suspected cases of typhoid have been reported since July 20. In a statement, Managing Director of Unilever Zimbabwe Mr Hilary Muzondiwa said the campaign is aimed at reducing typhoid cases and to educate the public on hygienic measures. The campaign will encompass visits to clinics, hospitals and community meet-ups to educate residents on hand-washing techniques, effective toilet cleaning and general health care with the hope of helping to reduce the spread of the outbreak, he said. “Our Lifebuoy and Domestos brands are centred on public health issues. We want to make sure we are playing our part in helping fight the typhoid outbreak by educating communities on correct hand-washing techniques and hygiene measures. “We saw it fit to help people at this crucial time to look after their families in light of this outbreak. “We hope that this goes a long way in reducing the number of cases reported,’’ he said. Mr Muzondiwa reiterated that the company is committed to encouraging healthy hand-washing behaviour and effective use of toilet cleaning products for improved health in communities. “We are advocates of simple and cost effective hygiene measures. Prevention is better than cure and we extend our help to communities by giving them valuable life skills,” said Mr Muzondiwa. Unilever is one of the world’s leading suppliers of food, home care, and personal care and refreshment products with sales in over 190 countries. The company has successfully launched education campaigns to help communities reduce cases of preventable diseases such as cholera and typhoid. Their campaigns have equipped people with practical life skills that helped reduce the spread of health epidemics - @tamary98