 Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief THE Rural Electrification Fund (REF), has completed installing a 28-kilometre Somphakhati-Ntabamhlophe electrification grid project in Lower Gweru at a cost of nearly $500 million, which is set to benefit four schools, two clinics and the adjacent communities. Addressing villagers gathered to witness the commissioning of the Somphakhati-Ntabamhlophe electrification project in Lower Gweru recently, REF board chairman Mr Willard Chiwewe, said the Fund has made significant contributions in providing electricity to rural communities as a way to stimulate growth and development. “Somphakhati-Ntabamhlophe electrification project has a total length of 28km and was completed at a cost of $468 551. The project will directly benefit two primary schools, two secondary schools, two clinics and one borehole. In addition, the project has the potential to benefit the adjacent communities, as the grid network is now within their reach,” he said. Mr Chiwewe said the Fund has to date electrified 9 160 rural institutions that include schools, clinics, chiefs’ homesteads, business centres and villages countrywide. “We have electrified 9 160 rural institutions that include schools, clinics, chief’s homesteads, business centres and villages countrywide. In the six and half months from January to July this year, the Fund has completed grid projects covering 127 institutions countrywide and five institutional biogas digesters in Matabeleland South, Masvingo and Mashonaland Central provinces. Furthermore, 276 additional grid projects and 14 institutional biogas digesters were in progress countrywide during the same period,” he said. Mr Chiwewe said to date, REF, has electrified 57 percent of rural primary schools, 69 percent of rural secondary schools, 86 percent of rural health centres, 83 of chief’s homesteads and an estimated 20 percent of rural homesteads. He said the fund is moving towards achieving the universal access to modern energy services by all rural communities by 2030.