Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent MANICALAND Hub sang their way to the top prize during the Harvest House International Church (HHIC) Clash of Hub Choirs held at the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair in Bulawayo on Sunday. The Manicaland team, who walked away $5 000 richer, broke the stranglehold Worship Tabernacle Unveiled (WTU) had on the competition for the past two years. WTU did not even make the top three of the competition as Harvest House Headquarters hub choir came second bagging $2 500 with Midlands Hub choir pocketing $1 500 for third place. Manicaland beat 19 other choirs drawn from the church’s branches in different provinces and the region such as Botswana and South Africa. For coming tops, Manicaland will contribute one song to the HHIC live DVD recording for next year. The judges were renowned SA musicians Dr Tumi, Jabu Hlongwane — one of the founders of Joyous Celebration and Pastor Charles Charamba.Hlongwane, who was standing in for Lindelani Mkhize this year, said he was delighted at the amount of talent exhibited during the competition. “Judging this competition was one of the hardest things that we did as the panel. This is because there is so much talent being shown on stage. The singers gave their all on stage and made our jobs hard,” said Hlongwane. He encouraged musicians to carry on promoting the sound of Zimbabwe through their music. “Zimbabwean sound is very unique and you should promote it. You don’t need to sing like Americans or any other people. When I listen to music from here, I should hear the Zimbabwean sound,” said Hlongwane. The competition started at around 3PM with the first round of the competition having each group sing for a place in the top 10. Before the top 10 was announced, renowned gospel star Mkhululi Bhebhe entertained the packed auditorium. He sang fans’ favourite Ichokwadi and had the place rocking. When the top 10 was announced, they sang worship songs and the competition then was too tight to call as the level of performances were top notch. Takesure Zamar, a product of Harvest House, also performed hit song, Prayer for Zimbabwe during one of the intervals. After the show, some people were not happy because it ended late at around 11.30PM. Groups of people were seen tracking into the city centre to various pick up points to catch lifts. There was no readily available public transport at the venue after the show and most were forced to travel to the city centre. “I think for next year the competition should start in the morning. Leaving at this hour surely is very dangerous for women especially those travelling home at this hour. Some of them are carrying little children,” said one concerned avid follower of the competition, Amanda Moyo. Another gospel music fan said it was supposed to be a family show and family friendly.“We want to come with our children to this show. But we can’t stay until 11PM waiting to see the outcome. The place becomes cold at night. So a family show that ends at 5PM is the best. More people will attend,” said Pamela Mpunzi. The HHIC Clash of Hub Choirs was the grand finale of the annual Apostolic/Prophetic Conference that ran from August 16 to August 19 under the theme, Understanding Honour.