The late Mr Nkala Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter BULAWAYO prosecutor Bryn Nkala has died. He was 35. Nkala, popularly known as Bara, succumbed to a short illness after being admitted to hospital briefly on Sunday. Family spokesperson and brother to the late Nkala, Mr Hilton Nkala, said the family was shocked following the sudden death of his brother. “We are at a loss for words. He was a good brother ad treated everyone with respect. He was outgoing and cool headed and always pushed for unity in the family. He was also a hard worker,” he said. Nkala is survived by his wife and two children. Mourners are gathered at number 350 Emganwini suburb. Nkala was a police prosecutor and was in the Central Investigations Department where he held the rank of Sergeant. He served in the police force for 15 years. Mr Muzondiwa Nkala, Nkala’s uncle, could not hide his sorrow when he spoke to The Chronicle about the loss. “I raised him as my own son and it is so painful to lose him in such a painful manner. He was so young and his children are very young. However, it is the will of the Almighty and hard as it may be, we must just accept it,” said Mr Nkala. Friends and colleagues who were at the funeral wake described Nkala as a “jolly good fellow and hard worker.” “He was a genuine friend. He was my brother and I could not believe it the first time I heard of the news. I don’t even remember how I managed to drive home. I am devastated,” said Western Commonage magistrate, Mr Stephen Ndhlovu. Another workmate, Mr Kenneth Shava, who was at the funeral wake in the company of other Western Commonage prosecutors, described Nkala as a unifier in the workplace whose absence would be felt. “He was good with everyone and loved his job. Only criminals must have hated him because he knew how to execute his duties. We have lost a brother indeed,” he said. Miss Mercy Tanyanyiwa, a community services officer at the magistrates courts, said Nkala was pleasant to work with. Journalists who worked with Nkala also mourned his loss and described him as a progressive and civil individual. @andile_tshuma