Dr Karikoga Kaseke Shamiso Dzingire, Business Reporter THE Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) has advised travellers not to panic in the wake of last week’s post election violence in Harare saying the country remains a safe tourist destination. Six people died last Wednesday after MDC-Alliance supporters turned violent on the streets protesting against the outcome of the just ended elections. In a statement, ZTA chief executive officer Mr Karikoga Kaseke said the violence was restricted to Harare’s Central Business District (CBD) while the rest of the country and all tourist resort sites remained peaceful and undisturbed by the state of affairs in the capital city. “The Zimbabwe Tourism Authority would like to inform all valued tourists from both the domestic and international markets that, notwithstanding the post-election violence witnessed on August 1, 2018 in the capital city, Harare, Zimbabwe remains a safe destination for any travel,” Mr Kaseke said. “The incidents of protests that occurred in parts of the central business district (CBD) and the south eastern areas of the capital city were quickly brought under control through the timely intervention of the police with the assistance of the army”. He urged individuals intending to travel to Zimbabwe and those currently in the country to conduct their business freely as the situation was back to normal. The tourism boss also stressed that tourism thrives in a peaceful environment and condemned the violence that rocked the  capital. “The Zimbabwe Tourism Authority does not condone any form of violence at all and joins the rest of the nation and international community to condemn the perpetrators of violence in the strongest terms,” said Mr Kaseke. He also regretted that lives were lost during the disturbances and extended his condolences to the bereaved families. “The authority sincerely regrets the loss of lives during the disturbances and extends its deep condolences to the bereaved families,” said the ZTA boss. @ShamisoDzingire