Cde Simon Khaya Moyo Richard Muponde/Natasha Chamba, Chronicle Reporters THE Acting Minister of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services and Zanu-PF national spokesperson, Cde Simon Khaya Moyo yesterday urged Zimbabweans to remain calm and peaceful to allow the Constitutional Court to play its role in the election petition. The full bench of the Constitutional Court led by Chief Justice Luke Malaba will hear MDC Alliance leader Mr Nelson Chamisa’s petition today, which will be streamed live from the apex court. Mr Chamisa is challenging President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s 50,8 percent win in the July 30 polls, against his 44,3 percent. In his petition, Mr Chamisa accused the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) of non-compliance with the law. Violence erupted in Harare on August 1 with MDC Alliance supporters accusing Zec of delaying to announce the Presidential results. Six people died. President Mnangagwa has blamed the opposition MDC Alliance for the violence and said a commission of inquiry would be set up to investigate the deaths. In an interview yesterday, Cde Khaya Moyo said Zimbabweans should be peaceful and be united and let the ConCourt freely discharge its mandate without acts of violence. “Violence does not solve anything. Let’s remain peaceful and united. It’s not only good for us but for the next generations. It’s important to have peace and harmony throughout the land and let the ConCourt play its role as mandated by the Constitution of Zimbabwe,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He said the fact that the proceedings in the apex court were going to be beamed live showed that Zimbabwe was a mature democracy, which has nothing to hide. “Let us also remember that the ConCourt proceedings are going to be beamed live by ZBC and other various media houses for every Zimbabwean and the world to see. This is a sign of a very mature democracy. We have nothing to hide. It’s not us but the decision was made by the ConCourt.  We only applied for permission and we were granted the permission. Our people last saw such at the trials of America’s Orenthal James ‘OJ’ Simpson and South Africa’s Oscar Leornard Carl Pistorius. Both were murder cases. We are a mature democracy,” he said. Cde Khaya Moyo commended ruling party supporters for their peaceful conduct before, during and post election and said they should continue like that. “I haven’t heard any complaints from the party’s commissariat or any organ of the party about any misconduct by party supporters during the elections campaigns, voting or post election. They have been largely peaceful since Independence. We must give credit to them for that,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. President Mnangagwa, in his heads of argument, accuses Mr Chamisa of abusing court processes designed to delay his inauguration and holding the nation at ransom Foreign Affairs and International Trade Minister Dr Sibusiso Moyo also urged Zimbabweans to continue being peaceful and respect the decision of the ConCourt on the Presidential elections. In an interview yesterday, Dr Moyo said: “This country has special values and one of them is peacefulness. What happened on July 30 (when peaceful, free and fair elections were held) is what Zimbabwe needs, not what happened on August 1 (when MDC Alliance supporters protested violently in Harare),” he said. Dr Moyo said the media should be vigilant in protecting and perpetuating peace after the ConCourt ruling expected today. “The media as the fourth estate should perpetuate peace and not incite violence within the nation,” Dr Moyo said. The minister said Zimbabwe becomes “attractive” in the international community, especially as an investment destination, if it maintains peace. He noted that most investors are committed to assisting Zimbabwe in revitalising its economy. The minister said the country is moving on despite the court challenge. “The President elect Emmerson Mnangagwa is not only taking strides to fix relations with the international community but he has also adopted powerful schemes within the nation. Examples include the launching of the Youth and Women Banks so that the youth and women can be empowered not only to get jobs but also to access funding so that they commercialise their innovations and get capital to fund their projects,” said Dr Moyo. @richardmuponde  @queentauruszw