Chief Inspector Precious Simango Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter POLICE in Bulawayo have said they suspect an inside job in Zesa cable theft cases that have swept across the city recently. Bulawayo provincial police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango in an interview yesterday said police were worried about the series of cases of copper cable thefts and illegal electricity connections. “We are worried about the high number of cases involving theft of copper cables and illegal connections of electricity. We suspect an inside job in some of the cases that we are dealing with. Our officers are still investigating a number of cases which are still pending, although I am unable to give exact statistics at this time,” she said. She warned criminals that police were closing in on them. “You can commit many crimes and get away with it but the law will eventually catch up with you. It may delay, but the long arm of the law always catches up with criminals,” said Chief Insp Simango. The Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company, in a statement yesterday, warned the public against tampering with prepaid electricity meters and illegal power connections. “The Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company wishes to advise its valued customers that it is concerned with the rising number of consumers who are being apprehended by police for bypassing and tampering with their prepaid meters or effecting illegal connections without meters to consume power without payment,” read the statement. The power company advised the public to pay for what they consume and refrain from the temptation of cheating the system. “ZETDC would like to urge those consumers to engage the power utility to take corrective measures to normalise their prepaid meters and to rectify direct connections without meters to ensure that they pay for what they consume,” read the statement. Offenders were given until the end of this month to fix their faults, or face prosecution. “ZETDC offers a grace period of two months until 31 August 2018 for such offenders to voluntarily come forward and regularise their electricity connections and bypassed meters without questions being asked as we are aware that some customers may have not appreciated the full impact of attempting to bypass meters,” read the statement. The power utility has since embarked on a door-to-door audit, checking for suspicious meters that are either not being serviced at all or that have suspiciously low recharges. “In addition to our own meters reporting back to the utility on points that are not purchasing or have suspiciously low purchases, ZETDC has embarked on a door-to-door physical audit of electricity connections on consumer premises. After the grace period, defaulters will be subjected to relevant remedial action, which includes penalties and litigation to ensure responsible conduct and revenue protection on the part of the power utility,” read the statement. Offenders face a jail term of up to 10 years. —@andile_tshuma