Joel Matiza Victor Maphosa, Harare Bureau Zanu-PF chairman for Mashonaland East Province and Murewa South Constituency parliamentarian Cde Biggie Joel Matiza has commended party supporters in the province for a resounding victory in the just-ended harmonised elections. Cde Matiza said the victory was born from the provincial leadership who worked tirelessly and coordinated well in preparation of the 2018 plebiscite In an interview in Marondera yesterday, Cde Matiza hailed President Mnangagwa’s victory and said it was an obvious case that the President would win because he won everyone’s vote due to his good policies. “The President’s victory was guaranteed, his policies and his good servant leadership has won people’s hearts, thus his victory was an obvious thing,” Cde Matiza said. “As a province, we would like to congratulate our President for that deserved victory, we have no doubt that he is the one to lead Zimbabwe to the land of milk and honey.” Cde Matiza applauded the Mashonaland provincial leadership for its unity and hard work before the elections. He said the party was partly affected by misunderstandings during the primary elections, but every dispute was solved, thereby strengthening the party which led to its victory. “Our party grew stronger even after the misunderstandings of primary elections, we buried our differences and united for a common goal, which was of winning the election and that is exactly what happened. We resoundingly won,” he said. Cde Matiza commended the province for making sure Zanu-PF candidates won the majority seats, but said the party can do better come 2023. “Out of the 23 constituencies in the province, we proudly bagged 21,” he said. “We lost two to an opposition party, but well, we will work hard to return those two seats. We will do better come 2023.” Cde Matiza said traditionally, Mashonaland East province is a Zanu-PF stronghold and it must remain so. He urged all parliamentarians in the province to fulfill the promises they made during campaigning period. “To my fellow comrades who won in various constituencies, I say fulfill all those promises, be servant leaders and do not relax simply because you won, there is an election in 2023 and we must start preparing today,” he said. Cde Matiza said the provincial leadership has a clear vision for Mashonaland East province which will see the province being transformed economically. He said youth empowerment projects is one of the initiative to be prioritised.