 Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A SECURITY guard based at the Grain Marketing Board depot in Gwanda was arrested for stealing grocery items from his workplace. Thembelani Ncube (21) of Phakama Suburb was convicted on his own plea of guilty to theft by Gwanda magistrate, Miss Nomagugu Ncube. He was fined $80 to be paid by August 10 or sentenced to one month imprisonment in case of default. In addition, he was sentenced to two months imprisonment which was wholly suspended on condition that he does not commit a similar offence within the next three years. In passing the sentence, Miss Ncube rebuked Ncube for stealing from the premises that he was supposed to be guarding. “You committed a serious offence and what makes it worse is that you are a security personnel whose duty is to guard premises against thieves that might try to steal. Yet in this case you are the one who stole from the premises you were guarding,” she said. Prosecuting, Mr Takudzwa Mafudze said Ncube was on duty at the GMB depot on August 1 when he stole two by 50kg bags of maize and five by 1kg packets of salt valued at valued at $236. “On 1 August Ncube was on duty at the Grain Marketing Board Depot in Gwanda together with Ms Sikhangele Ncube. She left Ncube alone at around 11PM and went to buy food. Ncube took advantage and stole two by 50kg bags of maize that he later sold to Mr Derick Ncube. He also took five by 1kg packets of salt. “On the following morning, Mr Luka Makulu commenced duties of guarding the premises after Ncube and Ms Sikhangele Ncube had knocked off. He noticed some maize grains scattered on the ground in the warehouse and outside the fence. Mr Makulu suspected that some maize had been stolen and reported to the depot manager,” he said. Mr Mafudze said the manager took an inventory and realised that some goods had been stolen. The matter was reported to the police who arrested Ncube following investigations. He was found in possession of the empty bags and the salt that had been stolen from the depot. Mr Mafudze said the value of stolen goods was $236 and  goods worth $142 were recovered.—@DubeMatutu