Chronicle Reporters Provinces throughout the country have started preparations for the commemorations of the Heroes and Defence Forces Days set for Monday and Tuesday. The Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister, Cde Angeline Masuku said preparations for the commemorations were in full swing and urged residents to come in their numbers to honour their fallen heroes and heroines as well as celebrate the work of their defence forces. “Bulawayo is ready to celebrate its fallen heroes and also to appreciate the commitment of the Defence Forces in protecting national sovereignty. The masses of Bulawayo should therefore come to honour their heroes both living and dead,” she said. The Bulawayo commemorations will be at Nkulumane Heroes Acre and at White City Stadium. In Matabeleland South, the Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Abednico Ncube said all was set for both the Heroes Day and Defence Forces Day commemorations. “Preparations for the Provincial Heroes Day celebrations are at an advanced stage. We have been holding meetings and our final meeting will be tomorrow (today). We expect the committees to give feedback on the progress they have made and round up on preparations. At the same time we have also been preparing for Defence Forces Day celebrations,” he said. Cde Ncube urged residents to come in their numbers to honour the heroes and heroines on Monday at the Gwanda Provincial Heroes Acre. Matabeleland North is planning to raise $15 000 for both the Heroes and Defence Forces commemorations. Provincial Administrator Ms Latiso Dlamini said both the Heroes Day commemorations and Defence Forces Day celebrations will be in Lupane, the provincial captial. The Midlands Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Owen Ncube said preparations for Heroes’ Day commemorations and the Defence Forces Day celebrations were at an advanced stage. He said the commemorations will be at the Provincial Heroes Acres while Defence Force Day celebrations will be at Mkoba Stadium. “These are national event and we must unite and celebrate together as Zimbabweans. We expect people from across the political divide to be present because we are all beneficiaries of our hoeroes and heroines’ sacrifices,” he said.