 Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Acting Sports Editor THE National Darts Association of Zimbabwe (Ndaz) is working round the clock to secure adequate funding for the team that will take part at the African Union Sports Council Region Five darts championship pencilled for Malawi later this month. Ndaz, one of the well run national associations in the country in terms of adherence to good corporate governance, has already named an 18 member team that will be led by veteran darts master David Nyemba from Mashonaland West. In a brief interview from his base in Harare yesterday, Ndaz president Meynard Moyo said his committee was busy working around the clock so as to ensure the players are well catered for while in Malawi. “The association is busy with the preparations especially on the funding side of things as we are trying to avoid crisis management once we are in Malawi. We however remain hopeful that we will get assistance from the various corporate bodies and indeed individuals that we have approached,” said Moyo. He said they have already written to the Sports and Recreation Commission to get clearance as per dictates of the national statutes. “Outside the administrative calls, we can safely say that the players that were selected are looking sharp and ready for the championship. We have been assessing them and the last assessment was during the Heroes Day tournament in Bindura where they looked sharp and ready for the challenge. We have a strong squad which can stand against any country,” said Moyo. The championship will be held at Lake Malawi from August 27-31 and eight countries, Botswana, Namibia, Lesotho, South Africa, Swaziland, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Malawi have confirmed participation. South Africa are the defending champions. “We expect to leave by road on August 25,” said the Ndaz president. Zim men’s team Salesio Gunda (Manicaland), David Nyemba (Mash West) Simon Mujuru (Mash West), Caleb Sigauke (Manicaland), Michael Chikomba (Midlands), Modokai Dheka (Harare) Women’s team Sibabone Mamwiri (Midlands), Sawujadi Phiri (Mat South), Tabeth Zhoya (Midlands), Svodai Nyika (Harare). Veterans teams Men: Peter Mulukula (Mash East),Moses Ndlovu (Bulawayo). Women: Cecilia Nzonzo (Harare), Joice Mloyi (Midlands) Youth Teams Junior men: Nashe Murambi (Harare), Brandon Ncube (Mat South). Junior women: Sibongile Nomsa Kagodora (Harare), Siphindile Moyo (Mat South)