Chief Felix Nhlanhlayamangwe Ndiweni Nqobile Tshili/ Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporters MATABELELAND chiefs have hailed the peace that prevailed in yesterday’s harmonised elections and called on the nation to remain peaceful and be ready to accept any outcome of the election. Police also said no incidents of electoral violence were recorded as Zimbabweans turned out to vote on Monday. The traditional leaders praised Zimbabweans for their peaceful conduct. “As traditional leaders who want a peaceful nation, we highly commend Zimbabweans for voting peacefully in this harmonised election and we encourage them to be patient and peaceful while waiting for election results,’’ Chief Felix Nhlanhlayamangwe Ndiweni said. He hailed the nation and particularly Matabeleland for demonstrating political maturity contrary to the past violent elections. “I have respect particularly for this region. This is who we are, that’s the Matabeleland we have been crying for,’’ Chief Ndiweni said. Chief Mathema said elections were free and fair and the peaceful environment came after he addressed all political parties in his area to shun violence. “In my area we had a very peaceful election. I talked to all political parties to shun violence and they responded positively,’’ Chief Mathema said. “Whoever wins should strive to build Zimbabwe and whoever loses should accept that in a race not everyone is a winner. In fact without a winner and a loser it can’t be called a race,’’ he added. Chief Shana commended the nation for voting peacefully and showing respect for elders at polling stations. “There was a high level of political maturity and respect at polling stations. Young people impressed me with how they gave elderly people and disabled people some space to vote first,’’ he said. The secretary to the chiefs, Mr Nothiwani Dlodlo, called on voters and the general public to continue exhibiting calmness and be ready to accept people’s will. “Let us be calm and ready to accept the will of the people, remember the President said the voice of the people is the voice of God. Let’s respect each other’s decision,’’ Mr Dlodlo said. Meanwhile, national police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba yesterday called on citizens to maintain peace as the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission goes through the announcement of results. “The environment was very peaceful and we did not record any cases of violence. It was very peaceful. And we want to thank Zimbabweans for being peaceful during this period. And we urge them to remain peaceful as they wait for the announcement of the official results,” said Snr Asst Comm Charamba. Zec yesterday afternoon commenced the announcement of poll results for the National Assembly and was set to continue releasing them throughout last night. — @nqotshili