Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent POLICE have said they will increase deployment of law enforcement agents to fight crime ahead of and during the Heroes and Defence Forces holidays. In a statement, national police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba said parents and guardians should avoid leaving the girl child with male relatives as they risk increasing chances of them being sexually abused. She challenged members of the public and motorists to comply and co-operate with police officers exercising their duties. “We therefore appeal to all motorists to drive safely during the holiday and to value the sanctity of human life. For the convenience and safe travelling of the public, the Zimbabwe Republic Police will deploy on the country’s roads and motorists are urged to co-operate with police officers at roadblocks and checkpoints,” she said. “Apart from checking vehicle defects, the police will also be on the outlook for various traffic violations, stolen motor vehicles, wanted criminals, cattle rustlers and drug traffickers among other offences.” Snr Asst Comm Charamba said police will be working in partnership with the Traffic Safety Council of Zimbabwe and the Vehicle Inspection Department on traffic offences. She challenged transport operators to employ drivers of the requisite age. Snr Asst Comm Charamba said most traffic accidents were due to human error and police are concerned with the flouting of road rules. “Of late we have noticed a trend where motorists are wantonly flouting road rules and regulations by driving against one way, proceeding against red traffic lights, driving on pavements and failure to obey carriage markings among others. All traffic offenders are warned that the long arm of the law will soon catch up with them,” said Snr Asst Comm Charamba. She urged travellers to board public transport as they risk being robbed while travelling in private vehicles.  “Let us all co-operate with police officers as they discharge their constitutional mandate. Members of the public who will be travelling to various destinations are also encouraged to board motor vehicles at designated points and not to make use of unregistered vehicles as they risk being robbed and losing valuables in the process,” Snr Asst Comm Charamba said. The national police spokesperson said the girl child is not safe under the custody of male relatives. “Those who will be leaving their homes are urged to make enough security arrangements to safeguard their properties. Parents and guardians should make sure that they leave their children in the hands of trusted adults in the event that they are travelling without them. They should avoid leaving the girl child under the guardianship of male relatives as some might be sexually abused,” said Snr Asst Comm Charamba. — @nqotshili