President Mnangagwa Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe National Youth and Paralympic Games set for the Midlands province this month are likely to score a first by having the President of the country officiating at the official opening and prize giving ceremony. Since inception of the National Youth Games in 2003 and Paralympic Games four years later, the official opening and closing ceremonies as well as awards functions have never been graced by the Head of State, with only Ministers of Sport and Vice-Presidents officiating. However, this year’s organisers are keen to secure President Mnangagwa as their guest of honour, since it’s the first time the conventional and paralympic games are being held at the same time to conform to international standards. “All efforts are being made to have President Mnangagwa officiate at this year’s gathering of the athletes, which is our own version of the Olympics,” said a member of the local organising committee. The games have been split into two blocks, with Block 1 for Under-13s and Under-18s starting from August 15-20, while Block 2 for the Under-23s roars into life from August 22-27. The official opening and awards day for Block 1 will be held on August 19 and Block 2 will have their function on August 27. An estimated 7 500 athletes and officials will take part in 23 sport codes, which will be held in Gweru, except for cricket that will be held at Kwekwe Sports Club. Meanwhile, James Chivivi, chief executive officer of the local organising committee, says his committee has identified nine games villages to accommodate athletes and all support staff. “According to arrangements that we have made, nine games villages to accommodate athletes and support personnel from the various provinces have been secured at Chaplain High, Regina Mundi High, Thornhill High, Nashville High, Mkoba Teachers’ College, Midlands State University, Kwekwe High, as well as Kwekwe and Gweru Polytechnic colleges,” said Chivivi in a statement released yesterday. He said a reception dinner has been planned for tomorrow to further mobilise resources for successful hosting of the games. “It is our fervent hope as the local organising committee that we will deliver an exciting episode of the combined Zimbabwe National Youth and Paralympic Games and that visiting provinces will have a warm stay in the Midlands,” he said.