 Ricky Zilil,  Senior Sports Reporter FRESH from handing championship chasing Hwange a shock 1-0 defeat, Toronto will be out to maintain their winning streak in the second half of the Southern Region Division One Soccer League season when they visit Casmyn tomorrow. Toronto, who earned the “draw specialists” tag in the first half of the season when they registered 10 draws from 15 outings, failed to collect maximum points in the first stanza. Thier fortunes seem to have changed for the better in the second half of the season, winning two games 2-0 against Zim Leopards and 1-0 over Hwange. Takudzwa Pambariza scored the solitary goal against Hwange and now Toronto coach Ghetto Nkala wants his side to maintain consistency. Toronto head to Casmyn’s Turk Mine without suspended central defender Nyasha Chiweshe who has been a vital cog for the Pumula East-based outfit. “In the first half of the season the boys were still adapting to the demands of First Division and now that they have settled, they are clicking well. It hasn’t been an easy road and even the next games won’t be easy but the confidence that the boys have following a better start into the second half inspires the boys. “Our target is a top eight finish and looking at how we’re playing, I think if we win at least five games we will move up and be on quest to achieve our target. We just have to remain rooted to the ground, keep working hard and maintain our form,” said Nkala. Casmyn go into tomorrow’s encounter bubbling with confidence following a 0-1 away win over Zim Leopards. The gold miners lost 3-1 to Hwange in their last home game. Table toppers Hwange will be hoping to get back to winning ways when they play host to Zim Leopards. With their lead cut to just three-points, Hwange are aware that dropping more points could spell doom for their campaign as second placed Tsholotsho who are on 34 points are breathing heavily at their back. Tsholotsho will be away to Talen Vision at Gifford Stadium tomorrow, in a potentially exciting encounter. Smarting from a 1-0 away loss to ZPC Hwange, Talen Vision, 12 points behind leaders Hwange will be hoping to at least maintain the gap and keep their slim title hopes alive. Meanwhile, on Sunday third on the table ZPC Hwange head to Victoria Falls to play Mosi Rovers who are smarting from a 2-1 away loss to Tsholotsho. Fixtures Tomorrow:Hwange v Zim Leopards (Hwange,12PM), Talen Vision v Tsholotsho(Gifford, 12PM), Main Line v Makomo (Plumtree, 12PM), Casmyn v Toronto (Turk Mine), Indlovu Iyanyathela v CIWU (Mzilikazi Barracks, 12PM), Moto Moto v ZRP Bulawayo (Hwange), Bosso 90 v NRZ Leopards (Crescent, 1PM) Sunday:Mosi Rovers v ZPC Hwange(Chinotimba)