Hilton Mudariki Petros Kausiyo, Harare Bureau ZIMBABWE have been dealt a blow to their preparations for their must win Rugby Africa Gold Cup clash against Uganda in Kampala on Saturday with the Mudariki brothers Hilton and Farai ruled out of the showdown. The Sables left Harare at midday yesterday for the match they will have to win at all costs if they are to harbour any thoughts of preserving their status in the elite Gold Cup. But the Mudariki brothers of scrumhalf Hilton and prop Farai were conspicuous by their absence as Peter De Villiers and his men boarded a Kenya Airways flight for what has suddenly become the most important assignment of their doomed campaign. Club commitments in the United Kingdom have robbed the Sables of an opportunity to call on the talents and grit of the Mudariki brothers. Zimbabwe have already had to grapple with the disappointment of the Sables failure to qualify for the 2019 World Cup. After the World Cup dream went up in flames, the Sables must now fight tooth and nail to preserve their Gold Cup status as their winless run from four Tests have left them precariously sitting second from bottom on the six-team log table. Their three points were earned from a 23-23 home draw against bottom of the pile Morocco on June 16 and the bonus point eked out of a battling 58-28 defeat by Namibia at Hartsfield on August 4. Ironically the Sables have conspired to disappoint the nation in an otherwise refreshing year when sponsorship deals that had become rarity have come their way and came in big. A period when their welfare has been so catered for, they have not had to worry whether they would be able to fulfil their next fixture. But just when they needed every arsenal they could have for this massive assignment, the Sables will now have to make do without Hilton and Farai Mudariki. While scrumhalf Hilton has missed some of the games in this campaign, his young brother Farai has been an integral part of the Sables forward pack and will no doubt be a huge missing link in Kampala. Sables team manager Derek Chiwara acknowledged as much shortly before the squad’s departure yesterday but insisted that Lawrence Cleminson, who has been thrust into position will be an adequate replacement. Cleminson has been a part of the Sables party but has had to contend with a place on the replacements bench. Chiwara also revealed that the Sables had failed in their bid to secure the release of South African-based flanker Michael Botha from his club. “Farai and Hilton have club commitments in England. Botha also had club commitments which affected his early release from camp. “Farai’s absence will be felt. However, his replacements have prepared fully and are ready and set to step into his shoes and fit them well “Preparations have been on track, the team worked extremely hard and raised the intensity. The coaches really pushed the boys and the team responded well and showed their desire to, go out and deliver a good result,’’ Chiwara said. Both Hilton and Farai are also new players at their respective clubs with the scrum half having joined English Championship side Jersey Reds in June while the later secured his move at the start of last month. Hilton’s move to Jersey Reds also meant that he missed the Cheetahs’ Sevens World Cup adventure in San Francisco, after coach Gilbert Nyamutsamba elected to afford him a chance to settle down at the club, he had just joined. And left him from the side that travelled to the United States. English club Worcester announced that they had made the prop their 11th signing for the 2018-19 season with Farai arriving from French side Stado Tarbes Pyrenees. But the club then agreed that the 23 year-old forward could arrive at Sixways this month after he had fulfilled his World Cup qualifying duties with the national team. The Sables had also been hoping that Botha would bring some more grit to their pack but efforts to secure the flanker came to nought. Zimbabwe will also be hoping that the pair of flyhalf Brendon Mandivenga and centre Kudzai Mashawi who were nursing injuries from knocks received in the game against Namibia would have fully recovered. Mandivenga and Mashawi were also part of the travelling party yesterday. Meanwhile, Zimbabwe Rugby Union Women’s boss Abigail Mnikwa has hailed Aaron Jani’s leadership for the efforts the ex-Sables international is making in reviving the females’ game in the country. Jani’s board have intensified their search for sponsorship for women’s rugby after noting that it was beign pegged back from reaching its full potential largely by financial constraints. Yet the women have strong potential to also fly the Zimbabwean flag at such big tournaments such as the World Cup. Mnikwa noted that since 2001, the women’s game has also not received adequate attention with a lot of focus being put on the men. But Jani has refreshingly made it one of his major priorities to try and turn things around and Mnikwa acknowledged the effort. “I would like to commend the board for the effort they are making in trying to engage and bring in new sponsors to the teams. “Our teams need exposure and for that to happen, they need money. Usually when there are financial constraints, especially at club level, the money is directed towards the men’s rugby teams because that is what people are used to. “In terms of growing we could definitely be better but so far we have done really well seeing as we have managed to play from January to December                   before. We however need to do more and we                              are in the process of acquiring sponsors so we can grow. “Our Sevens team is growing but the girls need sponsors. They also need to be exposed to teams that are outside Africa as most countries that we go against would have had that exposure already which is a bit of a disadvantage. “We only have one tournament all year round and we need to have more which needs more money therefore we need more sponsors,” said Mnikwa. Mnikwa said the ZRU were now working on arranging more tournaments in order to afford the players more game time and exposure. “We are hoping to have more tournaments as the year progresses, in fact we are announcing news about one in a couple of days…we still have not finalised the details of the tournament. “We will be expecting a few teams from outside the country but we are not yet sure how many there will be and from which countries,” she said. The women’s rugby team is also hoping to be a part of the teams that will be chosen to take part in the 2021 Women’s World Cup qualifiers. “On the issue of whether or not we are going to take part in the 2021 Women’s World Cup qualifiers, I cannot comment much but we do want to have the opportunity to take part. “The decision is up to Rugby Africa. We have played teams from Botswana, Zambia so far and we are expecting to play Uganda soon,” Mnikwa said. Sables Squad 1.  Denford Mutamangira 2. David Mukanda 3. Lawrence Cleminson 4. Brian Nyaude 5. Fortunate Chipendo 6. Takudzwa Mandiwanza 7. Connor Pritchard 8. Tapfuma Parirenyatwa 9. Jeremiah Jaravaza 10.  Brendon Mandivenga 11. Tafadzwa Chitokwindo 12. Tafadzwa Mhende 13. Kudzai Mashawi 14. Shayne Makombe 15. Shingirai Katsvere 16. Mathew Mandioma 17. Irvine Nduwa 18. Cleaopas Kundiona 19. Antipas Kamkwindo 20. Lucky Sithole 21. Ernest Mudzengerere 22. Lenience Tambwera 23. Mathew McNab 24. Kudakwashe Nyakufaringwa 25.Takudzwa Kumadiro Gold Cup fixtures Namibia vs Kenya: (Windhoek); Uganda vs Zimbabwe (Kampala); Tunisia vs Morocco (Tunis)