Polytech entrance Andile Tshuma Anchored in the Real World of Production is the motto and anchored in the real world of production is indeed the business of each day. Bulawayo Polytechnic main campus, situated conveniently a stone’s throw away from the CBD, however, far enough from the madding vibe and buzz of the city offers the perfect setting for students to acquire the necessary skills as they are equipped for industry. The institution is the perfect setting, with adequate accommodation for students, relieving students from the hassle of seeking off campus residence each term An institution par excellence, Bulawayo Polytechnic boasts of competent academic staff and administrative leadership who are testimony of its success. Established in 1927, Bulawayo Polytechnic has grown phenomenally, both in terms of student and staff population as well as in the range of disciplines on offer. The institution is the second largest polytechnic in the country. Student enrolment currently stands at 4 000, with the record enrolment having been over 6 000 in the previous years. This is underpinned by a staff complement of 350, academic, administrative and general. Driven by the values of Ubuntu/Unhu and excellence, the polytechnic prides itself in being the provider of highly empowered human capital through excellent scientific, technical, vocational education and training for sustainable socio economic development. The institution has two campuses located in the City of Kings. The main campus is a less than five minute drive from the central business district. Another campus is located in the city centre between 11th Avenue and 12th Avenues along George Silundika Street. The main campus is strategically located at the corner of 12th Avenue Extension and Park Road in Suburbs. The college has produced over 50 000 students to date across a plethora of fields in the science manufacturing, design and production world among others, living true to its motto, “Anchored in the Real World of Production”. Led by a visionary principal, Mr Gilbert Mzenzi Mabasa, the college has grown from strength to strength and has won numerous awards in academia, sports and the corporate world. The main campus boasts of a state of the art library fully equipped with learning materials that can make a student compete on the international platform, with online resource available 24/7 courtesy of reliable free internet on campus. The college caters for everyone from members of the public with no qualifications to gain practical skills to academics needing specific training in various disciplines. Professional course on offer include City and Guilds and courses from the institute of commercial management, ACCA, CIS, ICM, SAIM, IAC project management among others. HEXCO, Pitman and two degree programmes are also offered at the institution. Courses are offered from certificate, diploma, advanced diploma, higher national diploma and two degree programmes, with plans to add on more degree programmes in the future. Bulawayo Polytechnic boasts of a robust adult and continuing education department offering 1 year and 2 year courses in various disciplines for students on mature entry. The Bulawayo Polytechnic also has an excellent School of Hospitality and Tourism offering excellent hotel services and exotic cuisines. The hotel school can be hired for corporate functions, conferences, weddings and church gatherings with a beautiful sitting area that caters for over 800 people. The institution is at the heart of the City of Kings also referred to as Kontuthu Ziyathunqa, the second largest city and industrial capital of the country, with a population of over 1 million people. There are a lot of interesting activities for the students as there are tourist attractions all around the college and the city. Students who favour the outdoors have the Hillside Dams to visit and the Bulawayo swimming baths just across the road, the Centenary Park perfect for weekend picnics with relatives or study and the Natural History Museum. Those wishing to go out of town can leave the campus and go on same day trips to Matopos, Redwood Leisure Centre, Khami Ruins and Umguza Nature Reserve, just a handful of fun filled activities that a college student can look forward to whilst at the Polytechnic . Student representation Bulawayo Polytechnic has very competitive and functional student activism, with a Student Representative Council (SRC) elected at the beginning of each year and being held accountable by its students while in office. This year the SRC is led by Angeline Dube as its president. The SRC is responsible for student welfare, looking that the quality of lectures, availability of extracurricular activities on campus, funding for various clubs and sports and student residence facilities. Alumni The college is currently working to set up an alumni office to keep in touch with former students in industry and to help facilitate exchange programmes among the students, current and former.