 Business Reporter THE Confederation of Zimbabwe Retailers (CZR) says the new Government should focus on developing policies that stimulate long-term economic growth and unlock opportunities for ordinary people. CZR president Mr Denford Mutashu said retailers were keen to work with the new Government to be formed by Zanu-PF following the party’s resounding victory in the just ended election. “The economy is top on mind for consumers who are also voters, as it determines their income and spending fate. If these harmonised elections have taught us anything, it is the importance of focusing on policies and programmes that not only benefit today’s economy but the economy of the future,” he said. Mr Mutashu applauded President-elect Emmerson Mnangagwa for directing national focus on the economy by pledging to open the country for business, fighting corruption, creating jobs, modernising the public sector and promoting investment and economic empowerment. “It is our hope that these fundamental issues will be accorded urgent priority as the new administration takes off. As the industry that supports a sizable portion of jobs in the economy and provides the marketplace where other industries’ goods and services are sold, we expect that, going forward, the economy should be the number one issue for Zimbabwe,” said Mr Mutashu. He said if the economic performance was not improved at household level, consumers would not spend and retailers would not make sales and the jobs behind the goods on retail shelves would diminish. “As retailers, we would like to point out key issues that our political leaders need to address for the sake of our industry and the countless retail jobs and the economy at large. “It is our firm belief that Zimbabwe needs public policy that stimulates sustainable economic development and eliminates barriers to sustainable business. “As an industry that occupies a strategic place in the distribution of goods and services, we look forward to continuing to work with President Mnangagwa, his new administration as well as new Parliamentarians towards the objective of putting Zimbabweans back to work while ensuring that our economy registers recovery and accelerated growth,” Mr Mutashu said. “We also call upon Government to initiate measures that can help retailers optimise their contribution to the nation’s economy and provide Zimbabwean families with the products they need at prices they can afford.”