 Descent Dube, Sports Reporter ASPIRING Bulawayo Province Zifa chairperson Oscar Mazhambe says once voted into office he will form sub committees made up of various clubs’ personnel so as to make the province a football hub once again. The former Zimbabwe Saints defender is one of the three contestants vying for the provincial chairmanship with the other two being long serving administrator Mkhululi Mthunzi and incumbent Francis Ntutha. Mazhambe, an emerging indigenous businessman said he will not be running the province as an individual but his will be to supervise. He said he will divide his five year plan into two since there are certain things that can be achieved in a short period of time. “In our offices there is no vision or mission statement. My first priority (if elected) is to make sure that there is proper structure and appreciate the information technology. Every club must have gadgets to store data in order to promote proper registration,” Mazhambe said. He said Bulawayo must not depend on affiliation fees but come up with strategic marketing plans in order to sustain the province. “We need to come up with a marketing initiative in the form of replica jerseys and caps with Bulawayo logo. This program will be an independent marketing plan from Zifa which will ensure that all teams are not short of basic resources. “Some of our players don’t have soccer boots and are forced to play in dusty grounds but we expect them to be competitive when they make it to bigger teams. Thus, it is important to engage with the City Council and make use of Luveve, White City and even the outside fields at Barbourfields,” Mazhambe said. He said at the end of his term the glory of Bulawayo as the football hub must be retained. “I will not spend most of my time in the office but on the field as I have demonstrated it before having been the coach of developing teams like Sizinda and Matshobana. I have administrative and technical expertise to execute these programmes,” said Mazhambe.He said he will also introduce the Chairman’s Trophy for all age groups. Four out of the 10 provinces have more than one candidate vying for the post of chairman with the rest having only one candidate. The elections are set to be held on September 1 alongside that of the Premier Soccer League that will see Caps United president Farai Jere battling it out with Triangle United’s Lovemore Matikinyidze. @DecoDecent2