Mr Nyasha Maravanyika Andile Tshuma, Business Reporter GOLD panners are causing damage running into millions of dollars annually by digging deep pits around railway infrastructure, the National Railways of Zimbabwe has said. NRZ Public Relations Manager Mr Nyasha Maravanyika, in a telephone interview yesterday, said gold panners were giving the railway company a torrid time by mining on railway territories. “We are having a problem of gold panners illegally mining in our compounds and along railway lines. Some are actually mining under the railway tracks, leading to the weakening and then collapse of the railway line,” he said. Mr Maravanyika said the parastatal was losing millions of dollars annually due to vandalism of its infrastructure. “Instead of channelling our funds towards moving forward and developing our systems, a lot of our money is going towards repair and rehabilitation of vandalised infrastructure. It is not good for the National Railways of Zimbabwe because this money should be going towards service delivery,” he said. Gold panners across the country are mining in undesignated areas and have caused immense damage in communal areas, farms, along river banks and on railway tracks. They follow a mineral belt and would just keep digging whether it’s beneath a road or railway line. Mr Maravanyika said it was important for the public to have a sense of ownership and responsibility in order to safeguard railway infrastructure. “The equipment is only managed by the NRZ but is for the people. Our mandate is to manage the infrastructure and to ensure that it is of best service to Zimbabweans. We have passenger trains and goods trains and we need both services. “However, when people damage the infrastructure, we are compromised as we are unable to fully serve the country. We suffer delays and at times may have fatal disasters emanating from some irresponsible members of the public toying around with crucial infrastructure,” said Mr Maravanyika. He said the railway company had partnered with the Environmental Management Authority (EMA), Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (Zesa) and TelOne to hold awareness campaigns to conscientise the public on the importance of stewardship of public infrastructure. Mr Maravanyika said most problems were encountered in Esigodini, Shurugwi, Kwekwe, Bindura, Colleen Bawn, and Gwanda, which are mineral rich. — @andile_tshuma