Professor Amon Murwira Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent THE Government has secured a $10 million loan facility from a South African financial institution to assist tertiary education students pay their fees. Due to the economic situation in the country, most students are struggling to pay their fees resulting in some of them deferring studies. In an interview, Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Minister Professor Amon Murwira said the loan facility is meant to ensure that no student defers studies due to financial constraints. He said Government roped in the South African company because interest rates by local banks were exorbitant. “We have secured a loan from Fundi. We were in discussion with the South African company and we have now signed a deal where they will provide $10 million to the Zimbabwe system. Students will get loans that are cheaper than what is currently obtaining from our banks,” said Prof Murwira. “As I told you our method has been to use commercial instruments instead of trying to agitate people to lower their interest rates. We’d rather introduce a competitor with lower rates so as to push local ones to lower their rates.” He said more than 10 000 students in tertiary institutions countrywide were paying their fees through loan facilities. “Students can also get laptops on loan which means that if a laptop is worth $300, you pay that amount within two years. Isn’t it good? The students can access the money through the Edu-loan system and there are more than 10 000 students who are on Edu-loan. Edu-loan is less strict and it puts more pressure on our backs to also do things in a way that is more convenient to students,” the Minister said. Prof Murwira said his Ministry is positioning itself to stimulate economic growth through innovation which will transform economic programmes. He said higher and tertiary students will create employment through development of prototypes in industrial parks and innovation hubs. “This economy is going to gallop like nobody’s business in a few months to come. The most important thing is that our history of economic activities is fast going to the dustbin. We are trying to remodel the education system in such a way that it creates its own jobs,” Prof Murwira said. “When we are doing the innovation hubs and the industrial parks, they will create a lot of jobs first of all in the construction phase and then in the operations of these projects. I’m very positive that this economy will do well within a year or two.” @nqotshili