Distruction Boyz THE DStv Mzansi Viewers’ Choice Awards (DMVCA) launch event was held earlier this week with the list of nominees being released. Gqom sensation, Distruction Boyz and their smash hit Omunye commanded the spotlight, leading the nominees list with an impressive three nods for Song of the Year, Favourite Rising Star and Favourite Music Artiste/Group. Nipping close at the heels with two nominations each are Prince Kaybee and Kagiso Rabada. Prince Kaybee is nominated in the Song of the Year and Favourite DJ categories, while Rabada appears in the Favourite Sports Personality of the Year and Favourite Personality of the Year lists. Rabada will have to beat stiff competition from media darling Bonang Matheba, crowd favourite Papa Penny Ahee, Mzansi sweetheart Nomzamo Mbatha and the flamboyant reality TV star Somizi Mhlongo. Last year, fan favourite Thembisa Mdoda walked away with the gong for Mzansi’s ultimate favourite personality. Social media was set ablaze as fans questioned why The Queen actor, Themba Ndaba, who plays the hugely popular character of Brutus, did not feature on the list. Ndaba, who walked away with the best actor award last year, is known for setting the internet on fire with his performance as Brutus. Nominees for the best actor category include Warren Masemola, Hamilton Dlamini, Mduduzi Mabaso, Masoja Msiza, and Khulu Skenjana. This year, there is the addition of a new category, Favourite Personality of the Year, which will be awarded to a personality that has gone above and beyond to have an impact in our society. There is also a hardworking and dedicated community leader who will be bestowed the Life Changer award. This is a person who has worked tirelessly and passionately for the betterment of their community to create positive change. This person will also receive a cash prize of R50 000. Bonang Matheba will reprise her role as host of the awards that will be held on November 24. Below is the full list of nominees: Favourite Song Of The Year Prince Kaybee and Lasoulmates Ft Zanda Zakuza and Tns — Club Controller DJ Maphorisa Ft DJ Tira, Busiswa and Moonchild Sanelly — Midnight Starring Heavy K Ft Nokwazi and Bucie — Inde Distruction Boyz Ft Dladla Mshunqisi and Benny Maverick — Omunye Kwesta Ft Wale — Spirit Favourite TV Presenter Lerato Kganyago Thomas Mlambo Pearl Modiadie Carol Tshabalala Anele Mdoda Favourite Comedian Skhumba Felix Hlophe Tumi Morake Smowkey Nyembe Mpho Popps Favourite Rising Star Smash Afrika Luvo Manyonga Distruction Boyz Langa Mavuso Lungi Ngidi Favourite Radio Personality Anele Mdoda Ntate Thuso Motaung Dudu “Lady D” Khoza DJ Fresh Selby “Selbeyonce” Mkhize Favourite Actor Warren Masemola Hamilton Dlamini Mduduzi Mabaso Masoja Msiza Khulu Skenjana Favourite Actress Thembsie Matu Rami Chuene Linda Sebezo Moshidi Motshegwa Lesego Marakalla Favourite Music Artiste / Group Lady Zamar Shekhinah Distruction Boyz Khuzani Aka Favourite DJ Ms Cosmo DJ Maphorisa Prince Kaybee DJ Tira Black Coffee Favourite Sports Personality Kagiso Rabada Percy Tau Caster Semenya Pitso Mosimane Siya Kolisi — Sowetan