Dr David Parirenyatwa Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter THE Ministry of Health and Child Care has said 16 percent of children under the age of five years die from pneumonia-related illnesses every year. It advised the public to treat pneumonia symptoms early to save the lives of children from a disease which is the single largest infectious cause of death in children worldwide. “Pneumonia accounts for 16 percent of all deaths of children under five years old, killing 920 136 children in 2015. “Treat pneumonia focusing on making sure that every sick child has access to the right kind of care either from a community-based health worker, or in a health facility if the disease is severe so that they can get the antibiotics and oxygen they need to get well,” tweeted the Health Ministry. The Ministry advised the public to maintain the highest possible standards of hygiene and encouraged exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months for babies. “Prevent pneumonia with vaccinations, hand washing with soap, reducing household air pollution, HIV prevention and cotrimoxazole prophylaxis for HIV-infected and exposed children. Protect children from pneumonia by promoting exclusive breastfeeding and adequate complementary feeding,” said the ministry. Pneumonia is a form of acute respiratory infection that affects the lungs. The lungs are made up of small air sacs called alveoli, which fill with air when a healthy person breathes.When an individual has pneumonia, the alveoli are filled with pus and fluid, which makes breathing painful and limits oxygen intake. The Ministry revealed that more than 60 percent of children who get infected with pneumonia do not receive medication that they need, contributing to more deaths. “Pneumonia can be treated with antibiotics, but only one third of children with pneumonia receive the antibiotics they need. It can be prevented by immunisation, adequate nutrition, and by addressing environmental factors,” said the ministry. According to the World Health Organisation, pneumonia affects children and families worldwide, but is most prevalent in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. @andile_tshuma