Joey Antipas Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter CHICKEN Inn FC’s impressive second half of the season start has won coach Joey Antipas and striker Obriel Chirinda Castle Lager Premier Soccer League Coach and Player of the month accolades for July respectively. The recognition came at a time the Gamecocks are preparing for a crunch tie against second placed Ngezi Platinum Stars at Luveve Stadium tomorrow. In July, Chicken Inn played three games, picking seven out of a possible nine points. They drew 1-1 against Dynamos, beat Nichrut 4-0 and edged Mutare City 1-0. During the period, Chicken Inn picked the same points with Chapungu who beat Bulawayo City 1-0, Mutare City 3-1 and drew 0-0 with Harare City. What could have influenced selectors to reward Antipas and Chirinda is that the results that they posted when the top two teams – FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum Stars – dropped points, brought Chicken Inn into the championship matrix. They are third on the table with 40 points after 21 games, trailing leaders FC Platinum by nine points and are seven points behind Ngezi Platinum Stars. Antipas said they remain focused on their game against Ngezi Platinum Stars, adding that they expect a tight game against a side who beat them 1-0 in the reverse fixture. “Our preparations for the game are going on well and it’s good to see that people recognise the amount of work we are doing by awarding us these accolades. However, we can’t dwell much on the past but rather we have to keep our focus on the game against Ngezi which I think is a tight one. The boys are raring to go and we just want to keep improving from our previous assignment,” said Antipas. Ngezi Platinum Stars will want to maintain pressure on FC Platinum and losing to Chicken Inn could see their title aspirations suffering a huge knock. Just like Chicken Inn, Ngezi Platinum Stars play as a unit with players to watch being defender Polite Moyo, Liberty Chakoroma and the central midfield pair of Xolisani Moyo and Walter Mukanga. Fixtures Saturday, August 18:Chicken Inn v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Luveve), Nichrut v Highlanders (Ascot), Herentals v Caps United (Rufaro), FC Platinum v Chapungu (Mandava), Black Rhinos v Bulawayo City (National Sports Stadium) Sunday, August 19: Mutare City Rovers v Shabanie Mine (Vengere), Bulawayo Chiefs v Harare City (Luveve), Dynamos v ZPC Kariba (Rufaro), Triangle United v Yadah (Gibbo) — @ZililoR