MultiChoice Zimbabwe rep Audrey Mawoyo (left) poses for a picture with Einstein Mubemi national winner of the DStv Eutelsat Star Awards and his teacher Mr Tapson Toro Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent ST Columba’s Maths and Computer Science teacher, Tapson Toro, is a man who has a gift for teaching and imparting knowledge to his pupils, hence two of his products have clinched the DStv Eutelsat Star Awards essay category national prize in as many years. Toro is the man behind 14-year-old, Form Two pupil Einstein Mubemi’s victory after he was adjudged the national winner of the DStv Eutelsat Star Awards in the essay category. He followed in the footsteps of Andile Dube who won the same prize in 2016. The competition is hosted each year by leading pay-TV operator MultiChoice Africa and satellite company Eutelsat. It is aimed at encouraging pupils to take an interest in science and technology in general and satellite technology in particular. Pupils are required to write an essay or design a poster depicting how innovative use of satellite technology in the fields of communication, earth observation or navigation can propel Africa into the future. Toro, who supervised Andile and Einstein’s projects, has been at the institution for the past 19 years. He holds a BSc in Computer Science from the National University of Science and Technology and a diploma in Vocational and Technical Education majoring in Computer Studies. What is motivating about Toro’s story is that he is a former pupil at St Columba’s, something he takes pride in. After the success of the two pupils at national level, Toro said his next target was to have a pupil from St Columba’s win the international prize as he believes Zimbabwe’s representatives have been sidelined for long. Toro said the plan was to cut the pupils’ teeth from Form One by preparing and having them enter the competition from that stage. “I thought my boy (Einstein) was going to take the international award because he’s very young and intelligent. I however, feel that I should start inculcating that sense of competitiveness for the top prize from when they’re in Form One. “The students should write and enter essays from that age and we guide them until they get to Upper Six. Definitely we’ll get something at international level,” said Toro. Amos Mumbere (18), a Form 6 pupil from Uganda was named the continental winner of the 7th Edition of the DStv Eutelsat Star awards while Tanzania’s Rasheed Taher (19), scooped the best overall poster award. Toro said his job of supervising the pupils was easy as they are willing to learn. “I’m really happy, the children are really eager to learn; you don’t push them. All you need to do is to stimulate them.” He said the secret to his success as a teacher in the competition was that he only stimulates the pupils’ minds to think outside the box. “I always encourage the pupils to marry theory and practice. It’s not that hard as all I do is to create a conducive environment for my students to learn. I always want them to think outside the box and be innovative when coming up with their projects for the competition or when tackling the subjects I teach,” said Toro. The man, originally from Chivhu, is married with four children, but grew up in Bulawayo from when he was in Grade Four. During his spare time, Toro is out having a drink or two and braaing with friends. Most of his life is however, spent in front of a computer pursuing his passion of computer programming. He said he wants to sharpen his skills so as to impart them to the pupils he teaches. “During my spare time I enjoy computer programming hence I spend most of my time on my laptop. I want to produce students who can be programmers so that we outdo the Japanese who’re leaders in information and computer technologies. We have the talent in Zimbabwe, this I know,” said Toro.