 Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter MOTORISTS in Bulawayo have expressed dismay over delays at the Esigodini toll-gate saying this spoils their trips and businesses. In separate interviews, motorists said the delays at the tollgate, which is along the busy Bulawayo-Beitbridge Highway, are causing congestion. Zimbabwe has been battling cash shortages which has seen a surge in plastic and mobile money usage. This has resulted in the Zimbabwe National Road Administration (ZINARA) accepting tollgate fee payment through bank cards swipe and EcoCash. Long queues have become the order of the day at the tollgate because the network system is very slow for those using plastic money. Commercial vehicle drivers said the delays are making them lose customers. “This cash crisis costs our business especially Swift Courier Company which deals in delivery of goods some of which may be perishable. Imagine you wait for 30 minutes at the tollgate with a fleet of vehicles ahead of you. “This means goods are delivered an hour later than the expected time and it frustrates customers waiting for delivery,’’ said Mr Jones Barreli who drives a Swift delivery truck. Bulawayo-Johannesburg Luxury buses drivers said though they have prepaid tollgate coupons, they are delayed by motorists who use plastic money because they cannot jump queues. “Though we pre-paid the tollgate fee, those who pay with plastic money will make us join the long queue waiting for the network to resume. “We cannot endure two delays, one at the tollgate and the other at the border post,’’ said a Bravo Luxury Coaches driver who declined to be named. A Cityliner Luxury Coach driver said since Zinara started accepting plastic money, they no longer meet their arrival times. “It’s the norm that we arrive in Johannesburg an hour late and already it’s disturbing because l also want to rest,’’ he said . A private motorist, Mr Mandla Nkomo, said he arrives late for work because of tollgate delays. “Every Monday l drive from Mbalabala to work in Bulawayo and am frustrated by the long queues l find and when l try to swipe l find the network down,’’ he said. Another motorist, Mrs Loyce Mabvuma, said: “I personally don’t blame Zinara for this inconvenience but the bottom line is the cash crisis. Long back we used to pass smoothly without long queues”. Motorists are against the opening of an alternative road at the tollgate for motorists paying cash to be served quickly without being captured on the system, which is network based. “We really need to pass quickly but it would be unprofessional. We don’t know if our monies are recorded in the system,’’ said Mr Bhekizulu Moyo, a motorist. An official at the Zinara call centre, Mr Ruzvidzo Chiunda, admitted there were delays due to network systems but encouraged motorists to register with the Zinara tolling card to reduce network challenges. “The problem is that many motorists are using their own bank cards which are prone to network error since the system is often down. “We encourage all motorists to register with the Zinara tolling card which has a 24- hour network service,’’ he said.—@tamary98