 Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A MAN from Pumula suburb in Bulawayo is on the run after allegedly raping his landlord’s daughter and trying to silence her with 50 cents. Arnold Moyo (23), who was staying with his brother, allegedly violated the Grade Seven pupil after helping her with her homework in their bedroom. The rape incident occurred just after midnight on Wednesday in the suspect’s bedroom. Bulawayo Metropolitan police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango confirmed the incident. She appealed to members of the public with information on the suspect’s whereabouts to contact their nearest police station. “We received a report of rape of a Grade Seven pupil by a tenant who is at large. We warn parents or guardians against entrusting minors with strangers. It’s never safe to leave a girl child in the custody of men especially late at night,” she said. Chief Insp Simango urged children who are sexually abused to always report to the police.  “No form of payment is worth concealing any type of abuse, hence when abused, victims should report as soon as it happens,” she said. A relative that preferred anonymity said the suspect tried to silence the victim with 50 cents. “After the victim did her homework in Moyo’s bedroom, she forgot her pencil and question paper. Later that night when Moyo was watching a movie in the company of his brother and the victim in her parents’ house, the victim asked for her pencil. Siziba told her to go and check for it in the cupboard in his bedroom, said the source. “The suspect followed her to their bedroom and grabbed her and raped her once. During the act, the victim was called by her aunt and she went out crying. Moyo followed right behind her and offered her 50 cents so that she wouldn’t tell her aunt.” The source said when the aunt asked her why she was crying, the suspect quickly responded by claiming that she was crying for her pencil.  “After a while, as the victim continued to cry, her aunt interviewed her again as to why she was still crying since she now had her pencil and she told her about the rape,” said the relative. A report was made to the police and the victim was referred to Mpilo Central Hospital for a medical examination. The suspect fled and is still at large. — @winnie_masara