Mr Mwonzora Zvamaida Murwira, Harare Bureau Secretary general for the MDC-T Nelson Chamisa led faction, Mr Douglas Mwonzora, flew to Kenya this year to meet G40 cabalists for assistance to secure a meeting with former president, Mr Robert Mugabe, so they could forge an alliance to challenge Zanu-PF in the just-ended harmonised elections, a National Patriotic Front official has revealed. According to NPF’s Mr Jealousy Mawarire, Mr Mwonzora travelled to Nairobi in February this year to meet G40 cabalists Mr Patrick Zhuwao and Professor Jonathan Moyo, who are in self imposed exile in that country. This is despite claims by Mr Mwonzora in The Herald on Monday that he hated interaction of whatever nature with the 94-year-old Mr Mugabe. Mr Mawarire made the allegations on his twitter handle reacting to our Monday story in which Mr Mwonzora blamed the MDC Alliance’s loss to roping in Mr Mugabe at the 11th hour. According to Mr Mawarire, Mr Mwonzora was given three conditions his party was supposed to fulfil before an appointment with Mr Mugabe could be made. “Instead @DMwonzora travelled to Kenya to meet @PatrickZhuwao seeking a meeting between Pres Mugabe & the late MDC-T Pres Tsvangirai. @DMwonzora stayed at Four Points by Sheraton Nairobi Hurlingham near Yaya Centre,” said Mr Mawarire on his Twitter account. “After requesting for a meeting with Pres Mugabe, @Dmwonzora was given 3 conditions which @PatrickZhuwao said shld be met before such a meeting could be arranged. @DMwonzora was told that MDC-T should (1)recognise that there was a coup on Nov 15 2017 (2) reign in xcters like Eddie Cross (3) stop attacking President Mugabe, before a meeting btn the two leaders could be arranged.” Mr Mawarire said he eventually met Mr Mwonzora this week after a story appeared in The Herald in which he indicated that he had been opposed to the roping in of Mr Mugabe by the MDC Alliance to bolster their chances. “I met him today over the issue, I believe what he told me, which was not making sense anyway,” he said. “I don’t rely on The Herald.” Mr Mawarire warned Mr Mwonzora against rushing to conclude that Mr Mugabe had caused their loss before the courts had determined electoral petitions that the MDC Alliance was launching in respect of both the presidential and National Assembly election results. “Cde, I am not part of the MDC Alliance, pliz leave me out of your nonsense,” wrote Mr Mawarire. “I take exception with someone who travels to Kenya, stays at Four Points by Sheraton Nairobi Hurlingham near Yaya Centre as an MT emissary wanting to meet Pres Mugabe then now wants to tell us otherwise.” Contacted for comment, Mr Mawarire confirmed that he had indeed penned the messages. Mr Mwonzora said he was not interested in discussing the matter.