 Melissa Mpofu recently in Mutare KHAYA Arts failed to bring the Chibuku Neshamwari dance trophy back to Bulawayo after failing to make the top three of the competition held at the Manicaland Showgrounds on Saturday. Mashonaland Central’s Guruve Marimba (pictured) who performed the dinhe dance came first followed by Makarekare Ensemble from Mashonaland East. Gwanda’s Bolamba Arts managed to make top three in a tightly contested competition where a trip to China and $7 000 was up for grabs. For their efforts, Makarekare walked away $5 000 richer with $3 000 being given to Bolamba. Speaking on their victory, Guruve Marimba band manager, Zacharia Five said they were excited to have won the contest. “I’m happy that our group managed to clinch this title. We once came first in this competition some time back at White City Sports Stadium so this is our second time to win. We’re now looking forward to travel to China with the group,” Five said. He said the group had 40 members but it was only the 15 who competed at the national finals who would hopefully all travel to China for the dance exhibition. “The group has 40 members but only these ones (15) who contested here will go to China. We’re not sure how many people Delta Beverages will facilitate for us to travel with so we’ll have to hear from them.” Zimbabwe National Traditional Dancers Association of Zimbabwe national vice president, Edson Museka said they were proud of the winning team which they have mentored. “We’re proud of Guruve Marimba’s success and are hopeful that they will represent us well when they travel to China to showcase their dances there. They should go there as our ambassadors and showcase what Zimbabwe is like,” he said. Museka however urged the winning group to take their dances to China in its original form. “When they go to China, they should display what they’ve been displaying here. We don’t want them to exaggerate and get there and be transformed because they’ve boarded an airplane.” Last year, Bulawayo group, Ezimnyama won the competition with the city having pinned their hopes on Khaya Arts to bring the title back home. Alas, that was not to be as the group, while they put in a lot of effort, found the going tough in Mutare. This year, the Dream Star talent search competition finals were merged with the Chibuku Neshamwari showcase that saw the event doing away with the traditional dance title. The competition was named Chibuku Neshamwari dance competition in order to incorporate the contemporary dances from Dream Star. Five groups that were merged from different provinces participated with ballet dancers Peter Lense and Ndineyi Alfazima coming out tops. They won $3 000 and will be joining the Guruve Marimba dancers on the trip to China. The Chosen was second placed and got $2 000 while Forgotten Tribe was third and received $1 000.