 Morris Mpala, MoB Capital Ltd THE wait and see syndrome during election season is a huge cost to the economy. On the flip side we do have business generated by the electioneering antics assuming merchandise and all there is to marketing was done locally. The way business life stood by waiting for elections to be concluded is just a headache for the economic growth of an ailing economy. Elections have come and gone (all things being equal and prior to finalisation of outstanding contestations by two major parties) the focus is on the Zimbabwe business wants. Cash shortages, stock market This is the biggest elephant symptom in the room. We need to address economic fundamentals with patience and big ears to the voice of economic reason. A vibrant stock market comes about due to having addressed fundamentals. It’s a source of capital and has indications on the compass of the economy. Its integrity needs to be guarded jealously. Transformational leadership  This isn’t asking for too much as this is a transition stage from informal to formal business transactions. Business yearns for formalised and tax compliant firms that play ball in the grand scheme of things as we pursue accelerated economic recovery. Corruption, food inflation Let us walk the talk with no sacred cows and send the right message to business. We do not need dealers but leaders in business and Government. It is about time production is encouraged on our farms and pricing diarrhoea arrested for there to be sustainable pricing regime. Finalise land reform programme once and for all. Foreign Direct Investment Prior to us maturing in harnessing local resources we need to look good to outsiders including Zimbabwean Diaspora. Put our house in order from political, social and economical. Business needs a serene, stable and maximum tranquil environment for maximum utilisation of resources. This “us winners and you losers” mentality is antagonistic and would not serve the business environment any good. Hoi polloi  Bring many people into the mainstream economy and reduce poverty and encourage aristocratic approach. Fair and equal opportunity to all is fertile ground to solve social ills in our communities. Protect the vulnerable. Government expenditure  Business will welcome a statistically serious reduction in Government expenses, domestic and foreign debt probably eat what kills cash budgeting. Government is (was) bloated. Unpopular but necessary austerity measures have to be undertaken. Small businesses, country risk  Incentivise the formalisation through incubators, tax innovations, funding schemes and a pure conducive environment for these businesses to thrive. Business has gone small of late but not very small and informal it doesn’t help the economy. We need to manage country risk accordingly. Best practices, corporate governance and political tolerance gives a good image just do it more over its just human decency to toe the line. Financial services sector, policy rollout An independent central bank and a stable and strengthened sector is recipe for growth in confidence, trust and gross domestic product. Consistence and vigorous but business friendly implementation of policies to encourage ease of doing business to mitigate against ever escalating usurious costs. Emotional intelligence, property rights, rule of law  Managing people now requires these soft skills and managing a country requires more of this attribute as we balance intricate aspirations. The cornerstone of business is the above. Respect and implement these rights and laws for basic human guidance as each individual playing their part to feed into the whole. It’s still the economy, stupid! Whichever way we look at it yes politically all things stood still but the economy didn’t. Thus economics has to lead politics not just in rhetoric but concerted, religious and scholarly proven economic revival efforts to avoid moronic and unprecedented catastrophe. Above all the will power to tackle various issues affecting the economy head on, without fear or favour, no misplaced priorities and in a less lackadaisical manner. Free, fair and credible process  God bless Zimbabwe and let the process be put to finality without skirmishes and loss of lives so that business can operate. Above all we are one people with an economy to tackle. IF YOU LIVE IN BULAWAYO PLEASE CONSERVE WATER IF YOU LIVE IN ZIMBABWE PLEASE USE ELECTRICITY SPARINGLY SWITCH OFF SWITCHES (SOS) IF YOU LIVE ON PLANET EARTH PLEASE PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT Morris Mpala (Mr Brown) is the managing director of MoB Capital Limited, a Bulawayo headquartered micro-finance institution with footprint across the country