 Editor: I ask all home owners, tenants, body corporates of apartment buildings and complexes, school principals, business owners and the management of shopping malls to please make an effort and pick-up any litter outside their properties and close surroundings on a daily basis. This meaning early mornings and late afternoons — 7 days a week. We humans are responsible for a cleaner environment for all. We cannot expect our municipal workers to clean-up after us 24 hours. When going out for a walk, pick-up any litter and dispose of it at any dirt bin close-by, many of the litter lining our streets is made up of recyclable material.  These can be used again, so recycle while you’re at it. In return, we will be rewarded with a litter free healthier environment for all, and give true value to your properties and surroundings. Did you know, that litter clogs our storm-water drains and causes unnecessary flooding. And believe it or not, food scraps and other organic items that are disposed of improperly can increase algal blooms in water, which reduces the amount of oxygen for aquatic life, such as fish. The biggest source of litter is cigarette butts. Though small they can be very dangerous. The butts contain harmful chemicals including arsenic, that can contaminate our water and soil. Just as much as our oceans, our streets, our landscapes, our beaches and our rivers are polluted, so is the air we inhale daily. Air pollution is brought on upon ourselves, this results from the burning of fossil fuels, such as coal, oil, natural gases, and petrol/ diesel for electricity and power for our vehicles. We need to plant more indigenous trees, as trees create an ecosystem to provide a habitat and food for birds and other animals. Trees absorb carbon dioxide and potentially harmful gasses, such as sulphur dioxide and carbon monoxide from the air and releases oxygen, this giving oxygen for all living species including us humans on earth. We also need to put more pressure on our government to invest and promote in renewable energy. Renewable energy, is energy from a source that is not depleted when used, such as wind or solar power. Zimbabwe has sufficient sunshine for the sole purpose of solar power energy, which generates electricity as well. If we do not all unite, take responsibility and action now, future generations will suffer. We are blessed with a beautiful planet called Earth, unfortunately, we only have one. Keith Thurley, Pretoria/Tshwane, Gauteng  Editor: Any arts enthusiast will agree with me that Intwasa directors are now spent shell casings, devoid of fresh ideas. They need to pass the baton or think outside the box because of late, they have failed Intwasa. The directors have blamed the demise of Intwasa on everything and everyone, but themselves. I hope this year’s edition will be improved. Here are a few things that need an overhaul; 1. Recycling of artists  — These old horse artists are no longer adding value to the festival. We need new faces especially those that appeal to younger audiences. Try fishing from hip-hop circles and house and Gqom DJs. 2. Monotonous activities — Many artists perform the same acts, songs etc. year in, year out. 3. Downsizing — Downsizing has its advantages, but it gives a negative corporate image. I suggest you tactically go back to what you used to do. 7 days and spaced shows. Downsizing is not good in the eye of the public, it’s a sign of failure. 4. Artists funding their own shows — Instead, it has to be vice-versa. This again is a show of a failed festival. We all know the state of finances our beloved artists are in. 5. Poor advertising — There are no posters in town. On social media it’s just too quiet. Engage professional publicists. There are many cheap advertising options. 6. Woo sponsors — If you carefully address the five points above, I am certain that sponsors will flock. Be organised and take stock. The word Intwasa is associated with life, bloom, freshness and sparkle. But all these elements are no longer there at Intwasa. It is no longer an enjoyable experience. Its either you change or die. Mduduzi Nyathi, Bulawayo