 Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A 52-YEAR-OLD Kezi man who is being accused of raping his 11-year-old daughter twice has denied the allegations claiming that she was raped by goblins. The man, from Tshelanyemba Village, who cannot be named for ethical reasons, allegedly raped his daughter who does not stay with him while she had visited him at his place of residence and also raped her while they were on their way from church. He pleaded not guilty to rape when he appeared before Gwanda regional magistrate, Mr Mark Dzira. He was remanded in custody to August 27 for continuation of trial. In his defence the man said he was not with his daughter on the dates that he was alleged to have raped her. “On April 13 I spent the whole day at work and I didn’t see my daughter as she didn’t visit me as alleged. At night I received a call that my daughter was acting mysteriously as she fled out of her bedroom hut through a window screaming and claiming that goblins were attacking her. “On the day that it’s alleged that I raped her on our way from church I didn’t. I spent the day fishing with a friend and I later took some fish to where my daughter stays and I left them there but she was with her guardian. I was never alone with her. Since she had an incident with goblins it’s clear that my daughter was raped by them and not me,” he said. The man said he was surprised to see police arriving at his home telling him that he was under arrest for raping his daughter. Prosecuting, Mr Pearson Chekeya said the man raped the juvenile who is a Grade Six pupil at Tshelanyemba Primary School on April 13 and 14. “On April 13 the juvenile went to visit her father at his place of residence as they don’t stay together. Her father invited her to his bedroom and raped her once. He warned the juvenile against reporting the matter. “On the following day the juvenile went to church with her father and on their way back he ordered her to accompany him to a nearby bush to collect firewood. The man went on to rape his daughter once and ordered her to proceed home,” said Mr Chekeya. He said the matter came to light on April 21 after the complainant’s cousin noticed that the juvenile was having difficulties in walking. Mr Chekeya said the juvenile revealed to her cousin what her father had done to her. The matter was reported to the police resulting in the man’s arrest. — @DubeMatutu