Zimbabwe flank Connor Pritchard scores Zimbabwe’s third try, under challenge from Kenya’s David Ambunya, during the Sables 22-41 loss at Hartsfield in this file picture AHEAD of their match against the Namibia Welwitschias, the Zimbabwe Sables have made a few changes to the technical team and training squad. Desperate to keep their Rugby World Cup hopes alive, Zimbabwe welcome Namibia to the newly renovated Hartsfield Grounds in Bulawayo on Saturday. Zimbabwe has begun its 2018 Rugby Africa Gold Cup campaign on a lukewarm note with a draw and two consecutive losses away, leaving them in a precarious fourth place out of six teams. The point hungry Sables have been in camp for a week with minor changes to the training squad, which include the infusion of three Cheetahs, returning from Zimbabwe’s Rugby World Cup Sevens campaign in San Francisco. Shayne Makombe and Tafadzwa Chitokwindo have been added to the backline whilst Connor Pritchard assumes his place as a flank. Chitokwindo and Makombe were responsible for Zimbabwe’s first burst of tries in their opening match against Wales at the RWC Sevens. Germany-based lock, Antipas Kamkwindo will be joining the team, replacing Johannes Stander. In the lead up to their next fixture, the Sables coach Peter de Villiers has roped in Harare Sports Club (HSC) head coach Daniel Hondo as the backline coach. Hondo, a former Sable and Cheetah in his time, said: “We’re not doubting the players that have been playing rather, it’s an opportunity for us to see what other players have to offer for our game on Saturday. “Namibia remains unchallenged in the competition and we hope we will be the team that puts pressure on them.” The HSC coach has successfully mentored his club into qualifying for the upcoming SARU Gold Cup. On Sunday the team broke camp to allow players to travel to their respective polling stations to vote. Sables squad for Namibia fixture Denford Mutamangira, David Makanda, Farai Mudariki, Irvine Nduwa, Fortunate Chipendo, Takudzwa Mandiwanza, Connor Pritchard, Tapfuma Parirenyatwa, Ernest Mudzengerere, Lenience Tambwera, Mathew McNab, Brandon Mandivenga, Kudzai Mashawi, Takudzwa Kumadiro, Shingirai Katsvere, Mathew Mandioma, Cleopas Kundiona, Lawrence Cleminson, Antipas Kamkwindo, Brian Nyaude, Hilton Mudariki, Ziyanda Khupe, Shayne Makombe, Tafadzwa Mhende, Lucky Sithole and Tafadzwa Chitokwindo. — Sport360.com