 Descent Dube, Sports Reporter THE Spar Bonsa T20 League resumes tomorrow with a double header after taking a break due to Heroes’ holiday with the final playoff matches that sees teams fighting for semifinal places while the bottom two will play off for fifth and sixth place on Sunday. Tournament director Duncan Frost said all the teams still have a chance to qualify for the semis. “This is a weekend of thrilling cricket which promises to be full of action and fun for everyone involved. At this stage, it is possible for any of the bottom three teams to still book places in the semis which promises to create an exciting atmosphere for Saturday’s games,” said Frost. An epic encounter will be expected when the Blazers take on the Raptors, sitting on second and third place respectively. Blazers’ Thabo Mboyi said despite his team posting a big score against the Tigers which saw national team player Christopher Mpofu scoring the first century of the tournament, they need to be wary of their opponents. “Anything can happen after a short break. Our last outing was superb but there is no guarantee in cricket,” said Mboyi. He said playing with the youngsters is a blessing in disguise since the league has been getting bigger and has a potential of attracting players throughout the country. The Sabres in position six, will need a big win with bonus points to stand a chance of catching the Hawks or the Tigers in the positions immediately above them. The Tigers are taking on log leaders Badgers in a tough encounter while the Sabres will entertain the Hawks. Tiger’s Farai “Slim” Gunda said facing log leaders Badgers was a motivation on its own but hinted they will approach the match with the same approach like any other. “Our bowling is balanced and we think we can get points to qualify for the semis. It is no secret that we will miss the services of John Nyumbu who is on national duty but we believe we have good replacements,” said Gunda. Table P    W     L     T     BP     Pts     N/R Badgers     6     5     1     0     10     25     1.514 Blazers     6     4     2     0     7     19     0.634 Raptors    6     3     2     1     5     15     -0.295 Tigers     6     2     4     0     5     11     0.180 Hawks     6     2     4     0     4     10     -1.095 Sabres     5     1     3     1     1     5     -0.569 — @DecoDecent2