Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter POLICE  have warned motorists against reckless driving during the Heroes and Defence Forces holidays. In a statement, chief police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba urged motorists to obey traffic regulations and exercise caution on the roads. “As we approach the Heroes and Defence Forces Holiday, the Zimbabwe Republic Police urges motorists to exercise caution, observe road rules and regulations on the road and strive to safeguard lives,” she said. Snr Asst Comm Charamba said statistics recorded by the police show that the majority of accidents have been attributed to speeding, human error, misjudgment, overloading and defective motor vehicles. She said motorists should ensure that their motor vehicles are roadworthy to carry passengers and goods. “We therefore appeal to all motorists to drive safely during the holiday and to value the sanctity of human life. For the convenience and safe travel of the public, the ZRP will deploy police officers on all the country’s roads and motorists are urged to co-operate with police officers at road blocks and check points,” she said. Snr Asst Comm Charamba said apart from checking vehicle defects, police will also be on the lookout for various traffic violations, stolen motor vehicles, wanted criminals, cattle rustlers and drug traffickers, among others. “The ZRP will be working hand in hand with other stakeholders such as the Traffic Safety Council of Zimbabwe (TSCZ) and Vehicle Inspection Department (VID) to ensure that sanity and safety prevails on our roads in an effort to reduce road accidents,” she said. “Of late we have noticed a trend where motorists are wantonly flouting road rules and regulations by driving against one way, proceeding against red traffic lights, driving on pavements and failure to obey carriage way markings among others. All traffic offenders are warned that the long arm of the law will soon catch up with them.” She urged public service vehicle operators to employ drivers who are of the stipulated age, who have all the requisite documents to drive and to ensure that their vehicles are roadworthy. Snr Asst Comm Charamba said police will not hesitate to impound all unroadworthy vehicles in order to save lives. “Let us all co-operate with police officers as they discharge their constitutional mandate. Members of the public who will be travelling to various destinations are also encouraged to board motor vehicles at designates points and not to make use of unregistered vehicles as they risk being robbed and lose valuables in the process,” said Snr Asst Comm Charamba. “Those who will be leaving their homes are urged to make enough security arrangements to safeguard their properties. Parents and guardians should make sure that they leave their children in the hands of trusted adults in the event that they are travelling without them. They should avoid leaving the girl child in the guardian of male relatives as some might be sexually abused.”