 Kaitano Tembo, coach of Supersport United celebrates with Thabo September during the Absa Premiership 2017/18 match between Supersport United and Baroka FC at Lucas Moripe Stadium, Atteridgeville on 12 May 2018 Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter ABSA Premiership side SuperSport United have confirmed the appointment of former Dynamos and national team defence stalwart Kaitano Tembo as substantive head coach. Nicknamed Mhunu Mutema during his playing days due to his dark complexion, Tembo penned a two-year contract with the Tshwane-based outfit on the eve of the start of the 2018-19 Absa Premiership season today. “@SuperSportFC is delighted to announce the appointment of Kaitano Tembo as head coach on a two-year contract with immediate effect #ForeverUnited,” the club posted on its official Twitter account. An ecstatic Tembo said he was delighted at the appointment and the confidence shown in him by the club. “I’m honoured by the confidence the club has shown in me by giving me this great opportunity. This club has been the centre of my life for almost 20 years and I and my players will give everything we have to keep our run of success going,” Tembo said on the club’s Twitter timeline. Club chief executive officer Stanley Matthews hailed Tembo’s loyalty to the club and said it was time to reciprocate that loyalty. “Kaitano epitomises what it means to be a club man. He joined us as a player 19 years ago and has worked his way through our youth structures and subsequently into the first team as an assistant. He has steered us on a caretaker basis on three separate occasions and everyone at the club is committed to reciprocating his loyalty and his desire to win silverware,” said Matthews. Tembo was first appointed SuperSport United Under-17 coach in November 2007, a year after a recurrent knee injury forced him to call time on his playing career. He had made more than 200 appearances, including continental matches for Matsantsantsa. The former tough tackling defender won the hearts of his players at SuperSport, with skipper and Bafana Bafana midfielder Dean Furman telling the media that players were in full support of Tembo taking over. The South African 2018/19 season gets underway this weekend with SuperSport kick starting their season with a tricky tie against Cape Town City tonight.