President Mnangagwa Farirai Machivenyika, Harare Bureau PRESIDENT Mnangagwa will soon embark on a countrywide tour to thank the people for voting him and Zanu-PF in the July 30 harmonised elections and will take the opportunity to outline Government’s programme on devolution of power. President Mnangagwa said this when he handed over 90 cars to chiefs to fulfill Government’s commitment to improve the welfare of the traditional leaders. “We are going to have rallies in your respective areas to thank the people for voting me into power,” he said. “We will be saying the message of peace that we have been saying all along and we will also announce plans we have to improve provincial economies because we do not want everything to be centred on Harare. We also take the time to explain devolution to the people.” President Mnangagwa pledged to work to improve the livelihood of every Zimbabwean irrespective of political affiliation. “I know there are some people who did not vote for me but my message is that I am a President of the whole country including those that did not vote for me,” he said. The President also briefed the chiefs about his inauguration and the support he has received from Sadc and other African countries. “As you may be aware yesterday (Sunday) I was inaugurated into office and we had a number of visitors that came to celebrate with us,” he said. “The whole of Sadc was represented while the chairman of the African Union was also there. Even our former President Mugabe, who had earlier said he no longer supported Zanu-PF and was supporting (Nelson) Chamisa also sent a letter to congratulate me. “He sent his daughter Bona because he could not attend because of ill-health. We are happy that he has realised that he had made mistake.” President Mnangagwa said Government had already started distributing inputs to ensure people are fully prepared ahead of the summer cropping season. “The distribution of inputs under the Presidential Input Scheme is already underway because we don’t want people to be unprepared when the farming season starts. “As Government we have said the inputs should be distributed on time,” said President Mnangagwa. The President said there had been delays in buying the chiefs’ cars because of foreign currency shortages. “There have been delays in the procurement of vehicles because of foreign currency shortages. I am however glad that with the distribution of these 90 vehicles all the chiefs now have their cars except in areas where the chiefs are yet to be installed,” said President Mnangagwa.