 Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent FOUR masked armed robbers allegedly stormed a house in Bulawayo’s Gwabalanda suburb and got away with more than $18 000 which  were proceeds from the sale of a house, police confirmed yesterday. The assailants, armed with hammers, knives and an iron bar, allegedly raided Mr Elliot Moyo and his wife Rozanah at their home on Sunday night. Two of the robbers, sources told The Chronicle yesterday, tortured Mr Moyo demanding cash from him while the others ransacked the house. The man of the house allegedly gave up information about where he had stashed the money after the gang stabbed him multiple times and hit him with a hammer on both hands. A source said the suspects broke an iron padlock and forced open a security door in the kitchen to gain entry into the house. The source said the criminals surprised the couple in bed and attacked Mr Moyo. “The four male suspects who were wearing masks did not beat about the bush. They said they wanted money as they knew the couple had recently sold their house,” said the source. “While two of them were ransacking the house searching for the cash, two others started torturing Moyo. They stabbed him on the left hip, twice on the left leg, once on the right palm, once on the right shoulder and they struck him on both hands with a hammer. They vowed they were not leaving until he gave them money as they knew that he had recently sold a house.” The Chronicle visited the family’s home yesterday and spoke to Mrs Moyo who declined to comment. “My husband is not at home so I don’t think it will be proper for me to comment. What I can only say is that they attacked us in our bedroom,” she said. This newspaper observed welders installing burglar bars and remounting the screen door. Bulawayo police spokesperson, Chief Inspector Precious Simango, said investigations into the incident were underway. “We’re investing a robbery case which occurred in Gwabalanda suburb on Sunday where four armed robbers are alleged to have raided a couple stealing $14 000, 400 bond notes and three cellphones — a Nokia, Samsung J3 and Samsung J7,” said Chief Insp Simango. She urged members of the public to approach estate agents when selling high value assets to reduce the risk of being robbed. “This is an unfortunate robbery where someone could have easily been killed. We also want to appeal to those selling their houses to do so through estate agents. Selling property such as houses without involving estate agents increases the risk of being defrauded or robbed of property or their money as was the case here,” Chief Insp Simango said. @nqotshili