Mr Robert Mugabe Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter WAR veterans in Bulawayo yesterday slammed former President Robert Mugabe for being a sell out after aligning with the MDC Alliance in the harmonised elections. Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association (ZNLWVA) Bulawayo province treasurer Cde Lazarus Nyoni compared Mr Mugabe to the biblical Judas Iscariot for going to bed with the opposition. Cde Nyoni was addressing mourners during the burial of liberation war heroine Cde Ketty Dube at the Provincial Heroes’ Acre in Nkulumane suburb. Mr Mugabe on Sunday last week said he would vote for the opposition MDC Alliance in the just ended harmonised elections. “The highest level of deception is when a once respected liberation war fighter comes out and announces that he is voting for the MDC Alliance, the same party he used to chant slogans against. “Our own people used to hear stories of Judas Iscariot’s betrayal and they thought it’s a fairy tale but just some hours before voting they saw a carbon copy of Iscariot,’’ he said. Cde Nyoni said Mr Mugabe spent decades denouncing the MDC but in a split second they have become strange bed fellows. He said war veterans should remain principled and desist from being swept away by the winds. The war veterans warned the youths against following the footsteps of “such sellouts’’ just because of money. Zanu-PF Bulawayo secretary for administration Cde Elifasi Mashaba hailed Cde Dube for her consistency in serving the party and called on other cadres to remain loyal to Zanu-PF. “She was a devoted war veteran and she never changed. I salute her for sacrificing for the nation of Zimbabwe and for our province. ‘’She remained loyal to Zanu-PF till today and we encourage all war veterans to remain firm and unshaken,’’ he said. Cde Ketty Dube, known as Sikhangezele Dube during the liberation war, was born on 25 October 1964 and died on 29 July 2018. At the height of the liberation struggle, she crossed to Botswana to join the liberation war. She arrived in Francistown and was transferred to Phikwe where they were flown to Victory Camp (VC) for a year. She was later sent to Mkushi Girls Training Camp in Zambia. They were bombed by the Rhodesian Forces on the 19th of October 1978 and they scattered to Kafue and Solwezi. She came to Zimbabwe in 1980 and was stationed at Sierra Assembly. — tamary98