 I have been waiting to hear from Zec whose commissioners were selected by all political parties in Zimbabwe. In a match when there is a problem, the referee consults with his assistants and will make a decision based on the cameras replay. In this case, the referee is Chigumba and the assistants are the agents from various political parties. If the agents presented V11 and V23 forms signed and agreed to, then my opinion is that the ones not presented on the day of elections surfacing in MDC Alliance camp are cooked. Remember, they claimed victory before the 90 minutes and they were their own coaches and referees at the same time. Politics is tricky in that not all people who come to the rallies vote and Zimbabweans always indicate left, but turn right. Please Zimbabweans have the courage to tell Nelson Chamisa that he lost and that in the next five years he would have matured a bit. Talking of spaghetti roads and airports in Murehwa is like telling Zimbabweans that there is going to be a train from Chitungwiza to Harare. That was the Mugabe way for 37 years and still there is no train linking Chitungwiza and Harare. — GG.  Editor — Thumbs up to the Government for rescuing oppressed textile workers, especially women who were oppressed for a long time. I applaud the Government for removing night shifts for women. Women, as compared to men, are care givers and they need to spend more time with their families. Most families tear apart because of the absence of mother figures at home. This initiative by the Government will indeed rescue many families who lost mother figures because of work. I really appreciate this move by the Government. What more do we need when we have a President that respects and understands women? Females carry heavy burdens as compared to their male counterparts. They have to deal with both work and family related issues and need more flexible working conditions. I would like to thank the Government for such a great initiative. T Kadzura, Harare.