Commissioner General Godwin Matanga Whinsley Masara/ Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Chronicle Reporters POLICE Commissioner General Godwin Matanga has said police officers should shun behaviour that may put the name of the force into disrepute. In a speech read on his behalf by Officer Commanding Bulawayo province Senior Assistant Commissioner Learn Ncube at a promotion parade of 102 newly promoted inspectors and chief inspectors in Bulawayo last Friday, Comm Gen Matanga said police must strive to take into consideration public expectations when conducting their duties.  He said police must adapt to policing dynamics. “The ever mutating policing terrain requires diligent officers who are able to scan the social, economic and political environment and act accordingly. The role of the police officers has certainly mutated over the years and similarly, the expectations of the public,” he said. Comm General Matanga urged the newly promoted officers to treat subordinates with respect and demonstrate good leadership. “As you assume your new positions of authority, I say, go ye therefore, rise, shine and raise the standards much higher. Be disciplined at all times; shun behaviours that might bring our organisation into disrepute. The organisation does not have a place for any bad apples within the ranks and file hence, we shall continue to uphold the zero- tolerance policy on corruption,” he said.The police chief said contemporary policing dictates that police officers must be vigilant and ready to deal with an array of challenges. “This is so because criminals have not only become daring, but have assumed greater sophistry in their operation. I thus urge you to be diligent and innovative in order to be robust in confronting any manner of criminal sophistry,” he said. In Matabeleland South Province, 21 police officers were conferred with new ranks following their promotion. In a speech read on his behalf by Acting Officer Commanding Matabeleland South Province Assistant Commissioner Clayman Mguquka during a conferment ceremony, Comm General Matanga urged senior officers to lead by example and be role models to their subordinates. He said the police force was in the process of embracing technology and utilising new tools in the fight against crime.  Comm General Matanga said the organisation continues to prioritise gender mainstreaming hence a number of female officers were promoted.