 Harare Bureau Zanu-PF presidential candidate in the just-ended 2018 harmonised elections, Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa, was early this morning declared the duly elected President of the Republic of Zimbabwe. He garnered 2 460 463 votes, beating his main rival Nelson Chamisa of MDC-Alliance who amassed 2 147 436 votes. VIEW FULL LIST HERE The result means Cde Mnangagwa won 50,8 percent of the total votes, while Mr Chamisa had 44,3 percent. The result satisfied the Constitutional requirement of 50 percent plus one vote for him to avoid a presidential run-off. “Now therefore, I Priscilla Makanyara Chigumba the chairperson of Zimbabwe Electoral Commission in terms of Section 110 (3)(f)(2) do hereby declare that the votes received by Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa of Zanu-PF party are more than half the number of votes cast in the Presidential Election, therefore Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa of Zanu-PF party is therefore duly declared elected President of the Republic of Zimbabwe with effect from August 3, 2018,” said Justice Chigumba.  The President-elect immediately took to his micro-blogging sight, Twitter, to thank Zimbabweans for reposing their faith in his leadership and vision. “Thank you Zimbabwe! I am humbled to be elected President of the Second Republic of Zimbabwe. Though we may have been divided at the polls, we are united in our dreams. This is a new beginning. Let us join hands, in peace, unity & love, & together build a new Zimbabwe for all!” Congratulatory messages were already pouring in. Foreign Affairs and International Trade Minister and Zanu-PFF Politburo member Dr Sibusiso Moyo said: “Our First Secretary and presidential candidate Cde @edmnangagwa wins #ZimElections2018. It feels like 1980 again. Makorokoto Murambwi zvoto zvine mazera nevene vazvo.” Gokwe-Nembudziya legislator Cde Justice Mayor Wadyajena said: “His Excellency, @edmnangagwa, whole-hearted congratulations. It’s a been a battle fairly fought and justly won. I believe in your vision for this country & will support the mission to transform our nation 100%. As for saboteur bhora musango agents, what a shambles — time to repent.” Firebrand South African politician and leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters, Julius Malema said: “Congratulations Cde President @edmnangagwa and all peace loving Zimbabweans should accept the results. You fought a good fight @nelsonchamisa and we remain inspired.”