 Descent Dube, Sports Reporter THE Badgers and the Blazers romped to the final of the Spar Bonsa T20 tournament after the league’s double header on Saturday and Sunday at Old Mutual Heath Streak Academy in Bulawayo. The Badgers had won by six wickets over the Tigers in the first playoff match on Saturday to consolidate their position at the top of the log. They booked their semifinal spot against the Hawks, who had beaten the Sabres in the second playoff match. The third playoff match saw the Raptors put in a great effort, falling just four runs short of the Blazers total. This meant that both teams maintained their positions on the log and booked a repeat match in the semifinal. The first semifinal featured the Badgers and the Hawks. The former managed a narrow win as they scratched out 113 runs in their innings but a solid and resolute bowling display saw them bowl the Hawks out for just 72 giving The Badgers victory by 41 runs. Thamu Nunu, the leading run scorer in the competition, turned his arm over and claimed four wickets for 14 in four overs to lead his Badgers team into the final. In the second semifinal, the Raptors put in a solid bowling performance to limit the Blazers to just 109 runs. Raptor’s right arm medium pacer Jonathan Connolly bowled superbly to claim five wickets for five runs in four overs. He led his bowling attack brilliantly earning himself a man of the match award for the second time in the league. Connolly’s superb performance wasn’t enough as the Raptors’ batsmen let their bowlers down, playing too many loose shots and lost wickets in clumps. They collapsed to 101 all out, losing the match by eight runs. After being 50 for the loss of one wicket, the Raptors must be ruing their chances as they gave up a golden opportunity to beat the Blazers who like the Badgers have only lost one match in the entire tournament. The final on August 26 promises to be a cracker as both finalists have won all but one match since the beginning of the league. Nunu said he believes his team has better overall balance compared to their opponents. “Our team is balanced and I think our opponents (Blazers) only rely on two players. If we execute our game plan well, we will definitely come out victorious,” said Nunu. He said he is motivated by the fact that his team will face a team which comprises experienced players like Christopher Mpofu and Njabulo Ncube. “We don’t need any extra motivation than the possibility of beating the likes of Chris. This will be a dream final for me as the leading scorer against my friends, Peter Nyandoro and Malvin Matiwaza,” said Nunu. The Blazers’ Thabo Mboyi said it is no secret that they are facing the league’s favourites but that will not force them to change their game plan. “After beating the Raptors in the semifinals we are strong mentally and physically. The Badgers can bring it on, cricket is a game of surprises,” said Mboyi. He said his team has youngsters who are now confident enough to steer the Blazers to the title. @DecoDecent2