DJ Liz Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent ALL is set for the inaugural Gqom Life Gardens All White Pool Party at Queens Sports Club on Saturday with over 20 artistes from Bulawayo billed to perform. Gqom Life Gardens is a celebration of Black Diamond’s Gqom Life album that was successfully launched last year. Black Diamond is a relatively new Gqom ensemble that was inspired by the genre from Durban popularised by the likes of Distruction Boyz. The fiesta, which is expected to become an annual event, will see performances from artists including Asaph, Mzoe7, Skaiva, Leeknotic Mambo, DJs Liz, Slamma, Keezy, Indigo Saint and Vinnie King. Entrance to the party has been pegged at $5 for general, $10 VIP and VVIP $20. Festivities will start at 1PM and end at 11PM with an after party slated for Club Cosmopolitan. One of the performers, DJ Liz, said she was ready to rock revellers. “I’m more than ready to take people on a musical journey during the Gqom Life Gardens. Since it’s a celebration of Gqom music, my set will be Gqom inspired,” she said. DJ Skaiva, who is behind the hit song Imali yeqolo, said he would stay true to his set of house music. “I’m going to be the Skaiva that people know and have fallen in love with. My set is going to be mostly house music. I’ll also likely take to the mic for a performance with Leeknotic and Mzoe7,” said DJ Skaiva. Asaph, who last year rode on the fame of his track Ovyas, said the show would be a testimony that people should invest in local artistes. “This event will prove to people and promoters in Zimbabwe why they should invest in local artistes instead of concentrating on bringing in international acts as we’ll show them our potential and justify why they should invest in us,” said Asaph. One of the organisers, Sugar Shane, who is part of Black Diamond, said preparations for the party were going on well. “Everything is in place. Tickets are selling well and we encourage those coming to the pool party to wear all white in line with the theme,” he said.