Former Warriors captain Benjani Mwaruwari Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Zimbabwe national soccer team captain Benjani Mwaruwari has been invited to play for Africa XI in a charity match against Morocco Legends in Marrakech, Morocco, tonight. Mwaruwari, who played for Auxerre in France, Portsmouth, Manchester City and Blackburn Rovers in England, said most international football stars who featured in his 2012 testimonial match in aid of the Benjani Mwaruwari Foundation are also in Morocco for the game. Africa’s most decorated player Samuel Eto’o, who won four African Player of the Year awards in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2010, two-time African Footballer of the Year El-Hadji Diouf, 1988 African Player of the Year Kalusha Bwalya and former South African captain Lucas Radebe are among yesteryear greats that form part of Africa XI. Former Liverpool and Guinean striker Aboubacar “Titi” Camara, Ex-Senegalese midfielder Khalilou Fadiga, Ghana’s Stephen Appiah, ex-Cameroon utility player Geremi Njitap as well as Nigeria’s Daniel Amokachi are some of the continent’s celebrated stars that will feature in the game. “I’m honoured and excited to once again rub shoulders with my African brothers while we play for charity here in Morocco. We’re about 20 former footballers who played in Europe, who are here to play for charity. When I had my testimonial match back in 2012, the guys supported me and it’s only fair that I return the favour. Even though I retired long back, I will always be involved in football’s worthy causes,” said Mwaruwari. Moroccan legend Mustapha Hadji will lead his home team. Today’s match comes a day after the first ever Caf Women’s Football Symposium, which started on Monday and ended yesterday in Marrakech. Zifa vice-president Omega Sibanda, Zimbabwe Women’s Soccer League chairperson Rosemary Kanonge and Women’s Football administrator Theresa Maguraushe represented the country at the historic Caf Women’s Football Symposium. According to the Caf website, the symposium, which ran under the theme “Raising Our Game”, was expected to chart a new course for the development of women’s football on the continent. @ZililoR