 Mehluli Sibanda in Harare Afghanistan 206/3(Shahzad 84, Shah 51, Gayle 2/38) beat West Indies 204 (Powell 44, Mujeeb 4/43) by seven wickets AFGHANISTAN completed an astonishing come back in the International Cricket Council World Cup Qualifier to be crowned champions with a seven wicket triumph over West Indies in the final at Harare Sports Club yesterday. For a team that was actually in danger of not making it past the group stages after losses to Scotland, Zimbabwe and Hong Kong in Bulawayo, Afghanistan have played some remarkable cricket in the Super Six to win the tournament. Mohammad Shahzad picked up the man of the match in consecutive matches with yet another half century, scoring 84 off 93 deliveries, putting away of seven fours and two sixes. The explosive opener shared in a 90-run partnership for the second wicket with Rahmat Shah who was second best with 51, Afghanistan losing just three wickets and reached their target with 56 balls not used up. Earlier on, 16-year-old off spinner Mujeeb Ur Rahman picked up four wickets for 43 runs in 9.5 overs, his effort good enough to clean up West Indies for 204 runs in 46.5 overs. Leg spinner Rashid took one wicket for 42 in nine overs and that was enough to make him the fastest bowler to reach 100 One Day International wickets having done so in 44 ODIs. Rovman Powell top scored for the Windies with 44 with the other notable contributions being the 38 by Shimron Hetmyer and Ashley Nurse’s unbeaten 26. In their run chase, Afghanistan were given a flying start by Shahzad and Gulbadin Naib. Keemo Paul found the breakthrough, removing Naib. Shahzad continued with his assault and was joined by Shah. Off spinner Christopher Gayle had both batsmen in quick succession. That was a temporary setback for the Afghans with Mohammad Nabi slamming three consecutive sixes off Gayle’s bowling to bring an end to the match. There was some consolation for Zimbabwe who failed to qualify for the World Cup with all rounder Sikandar Raza winning the player of the tournament award for his 319 runs and 15 wickets. — @Mdawini_29