Highlanders captain Honest Moyo (left) gets the ball away from the tussling duo of Caps United’s Zvikomborero Bizeki (centre) and Highlanders’ Peter Muduhwa during the VP Kembo Mohadi Shield match played at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday. —Pic By Dennis Mudzamiri Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter BULAWAYO football fans will enjoy a football fiesta in the opening weekend of the 2018 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season with the country’s two biggest sides Highlanders and Dynamos both in action in the city. The league season gets underway on March 17. Bosso get their season underway with a home tie against army side Black Rhinos, while Chicken Inn host Dynamos on the opening day for the second time in two years. Bulawayo City and Chapungu face off on match day one, while champions FC Platinum start the defence of their title away to ZPC Kariba. One of the four Bulawayo teams in the league, Bulawayo Chiefs, make their debut away to Yadah in Harare, while fellow new boys Nichrut of Shurugwi and Mutare City clash at Ascot Stadium in Gweru. League debutants Herentals are likely to face a baptism of fire against Ngezi Platinum Stars at Baobab Stadium. Caps United will be at home to backdoor entrants Harare City, with Shabanie Mine locking horns with Triangle United at Mandava Stadium to wrap up the league’s opening nine matches. Harare City were readmitted to the PSL following the withdrawal of Bulawayo-based How Mine. With only nine goals scored in the opening week of the 2017 season, five of them from one game where Chicken Inn clobbered Bantu Rover 5-0, fans across the country will be hoping the zeal to get off the blocks and make early intentions could be bigger than the fear of losing. Bulawayo Chiefs will enjoy the freedom of the city in what will be a potential money spinner for them in their second game of the season when they play host to Caps United, while the other three sides will be out of town. The league’s biggest match of the season featuring Dynamos and Highlanders will be on match day four in Harare, while the eagerly awaited Zvishavane derby between FC Platinum and Shabanie Mine has been set for match day 15. It’s a match that brings Zvishavane to a virtual standstill. The fierce Harare derby featuring Caps United and Dynamos is set for match day seven. Opening four weeks fixtures Match Day 1 Nichrut FC v Mutare City FC Chicken Inn FC v Dynamos FC Ngezi Platinum Stars FC v Herentals FC Highlanders FC v Black Rhinos FC ZPC Kariba FC v FC Platinum Yadah FC v Bulawayo Chiefs FC Caps United FC v Harare City FC Bulawayo City FC v Chapungu FC Shabanie Mine FC v Triangle FC Match Day 2 Mutare City FC v Chapungu FC Harare City FC v Bulawayo City FC Bulawayo Chiefs FC v Caps United FC FC Platinum v Yadah FC Black Rhinos FC v ZPC Kariba FC Herentals FC v Highlanders FC Dynamos FC v Shabanie Mine FC Nichrut FC v Chicken Inn FC Triangle FC v Ngezi Platinum Stars FC Match Day 3  Chicken Inn FC v Mutare City FC Shabanie Mine FC v Nichrut FC Ngezi Platinum Stars FC v Dynamos FC Highlanders FC v Triangle FC ZPC Kariba FC v Herentals FC Yadah FC v Black Rhinos FC Caps United FC v FC Platinum Bulawayo City FC v Bulawayo Chiefs FC Chapungu FC v Harare City FC Match Day 4 Mutare City FC v Harare City FC Bulawayo Chiefs FC v Chapungu FC FC Platinum v Bulawayo City FC Black Rhinos FC v Caps United FC Herrentals Fc v Yadah FC Triangle FC v ZPC Kariba FC Dynamos FC v Highlanders FC Chicken Inn FC v Shabanie Mine FC Nichrut FC v Ngezi Platinum Stars FC