 Harare Bureau The Zimbabwe Republic Police has deployed adequate manpower on the country’s roads, and to monitor criminal activities countrywide during this Easter holiday. In a statement, chief police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba urged drivers to exercise caution on the roads since the holiday coincided with the rainy season. “We urge motorists to adhere to road rules and regulations and therefore avoid speeding, overtaking errors, overloading, drunken driving, competing for passengers on the highways, driving against one way and over pavements, straddling the centre demarcation lines on the roads and flashing other motorists during night,” she said. “If possible we are urging motorists not to travel at night. “Be on the lookout for animals on the highways as you travel and ensure that your vehicles are roadworthy.” Snr Asst Comm Charamba said the force had deployed police officers who will be carrying out awareness campaigns and enforcing road rules and regulations. “Police will impound defective vehicles,” she said. “We are appealing for responsible driving and cooperation with the police as they carry out their duties. “The ZRP urges members of the public to board vehicles from the designated points to curb incidences of robbery and loss of property. The police will also be conducting foot, cycle and motorised patrols in residential, industrial and farming areas to fight cases of unlawful entry and theft, stock theft and robbery.” Snr Asst Comm Charamba urged members of the public to be alert during this holiday and avoid parking or walking in secluded places at night. Parents and guardians were encouraged to monitor children as they perform their various activities to minimise cases of abuse. “The Commissioner General of Police Cde Tandabantu Godwin Matanga recently launched the Police Patrol Unit and police officers will be patrolling the Central Business Districts and industrial areas,” said Snr Asst Comm Charamba. “We are open 24/7 at all our police stations and for any inquiries please call 04 -703631/748836 and (09) 885479 if there are any matters of concern,” Snr Asst Comm Charamba said. Passengers’ Association of Zimbabwe president, Mr Tafadzwa George Goliati, urged members of the public who would be travelling to plan ahead and do everything possible to ensure that they, their families and their luggage were safe. Meanwhile, Snr Ass Comm Charamba dismissed as false and malicious, reports circulating on both social media and some sections of the media that the force recently issued a statement saying people are crying out for the return of roadblocks. According to the police, no such statement was issued and those behind such falsehoods want to tarnish the image of the force. The correct position is that roadblocks were significantly reduced, said the police.