Yakayaka and Roki Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent THERE is a song that has been getting heavy rotation on some commercial radio stations. Titled Baddest Whine, the track by unheralded musician Yakayaka features urban grooves artiste, Rockford “Roki” Josphats. The Afro-Trap song which has a catchy chorus has gained the SA-based, Bulawayo born artiste some traction in the local music industry since its release in December last year. Now, the artiste will be releasing a music video for the song today and after working with award-winning videographer Andy Cutta, a lot is expected. The video will be released on her self-named YouTube account and the links will be shared on her social media accounts. YakaYaka, real name Rejoice Phaladi who grew up in Luveve, courted Roki for the single last year as she pursued a music career. She said she learnt a lot from Roki. “Roki is a very talented artiste and it was a great working with him on the song. He was very helpful and I learnt that for me to succeed as a musician, I should be more expressive with my music. I shouldn’t be afraid to push boundaries and try out new things, something I’m constantly doing,” said Yakayaka. The song, she said, was about every female’s alter ego. “We all believe we have the Baddest Whine. We believe we have ‘that thing’,” she said. Multi-award winning SA-based Dancehall artiste Buffalo “Buffs” Souljah assisted Yakayaka with the recording of the track that was produced by GT Beats, a recording company in South Africa. “We were in studio with Buffalo Souljah last year playing around with beats. Thereafter, Buffs suggested that I come up with lyrics and this is when I came up with the Baddest Whine chorus. “I then thought about a person who could make the song really great and Roki came to mind. Fortunately, he was in South Africa so I contacted him. He agreed to work with me and we got down to business,” said Yakayaka. From there, she approached Andy Cutta to work on a video which she said she was impressed by. Featuring on the music video was a walk in the park for Yakayaka as she has an acting history. Before venturing into music, she had been acting for about seven years with stints on Generations, Muvhango and Isidingo. She said she stopped acting as she was more passionate about music. Once out, she will be submitting the music video to various international music channels for airplay consideration.