Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter A FORM Four pupil was allegedly raped at knife point in Pumula suburb while on her way to school last Friday. The victim, whose name has been withheld for ethical reasons, was taking her younger brother to a local primary school, before heading to her own school. Bulawayo police spokesperson Inspector Precious Simango confirmed the incident. She said the suspect is on the run. “A school girl was raped while in the company of her younger brother in a bushy area near a primary school. We are carrying out investigations,” said Inspector Simango. She appealed to members of the public with any information that could lead to the arrest of the suspect to approach the police. “We urge the public to desist from using short cuts especially foot paths that cut across bushy and isolated areas as it is unsafe. Bushes have become a haven for criminals and we are advising the pubic against using these shorter routes as they are unsafe although quicker. School children are advised to travel in groups when going to school or leaving school,” she said. Inspector Simango also urged school children not to entertain strangers. She said residents must report any suspicious characters to the police. A former landlord to the victim’s family said the victim and her brother pass through a bushy area when walking to school. “They are always together and she always takes her brother to school first and then walks back to her own school. This is very sad and she is like my own child. I cannot imagine what her mother is going through,” she said. According to people who were at the scene after the incident, the victim had branched off from a footpath to relieve herself, and her brother remained a few metres away. A stranger pounced and raped her once. The Chronicle was told that the girl tried to scream but the perpetrator allegedly gagged her. He allegedly threatened her with a knife to silence her. After the incident, the rapist force-marched the girl back to her brother and walked behind them to the main road, continuing with his threats. They allegedly met a man on the way and the girl screamed and told him what they transpired. The man chased after the suspect but failed to apprehend him. The Good Samaritan escorted the girl and her brother to Pumula police station, where she filed a rape report. The girl was taken to Mpilo Central Hospital. @andile_tshuma