Cde Zindi Irene Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter A ZIMBABWEAN delegation heads for the African, Caribbean and Pacific –European Union (ACP-EU) Joint Parliamentary sitting in Brussels, Belgium where it is expected to emphasise the new administration’s commitment to international re-engagement. The ACP-EU summit runs from March 19 to 22. In an interview, the head of delegation and Mutasa South legislator, Cde Irene Zindi, said they would leave the country on Saturday. “The joint sitting mainly discusses current affairs in member states and so obviously if we are to talk about Zimbabwe, we will be talking about the current dispensation. That, we are readying ourselves as a country for a free fair and credible elections soon. And that Zimbabwe has opened up for business,” said Cde Zindi. She said the delegation made up of Chegutu West legislator Cde Dexter Nduna and Matabeleland South Senator Sithembile Mlotshwa (MDC-T), will also outline efforts made by the new Government in re-engaging the international community. “We will also talk about the current dispensation’s efforts in engaging the international community, that we can’t live in isolation. Of course, we will be informing the international community in terms of having to complement efforts of the Zimbabwean Government,” said Cde Zindi. The ACP Parliamentary Assembly is made up of legislators from 79 African, Caribbean and Pacific countries.The delegation will attend a committee meeting on Economic Development, Finance and Trade whose agenda will tackle issues to do with Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) development which is at the heart of economic transformation in ACP countries, European Investment Bank (EIB), investments in ACP countries, the impact of the illegal trade in phytosanitary products, seeds and other agricultural inputs in ACP countries’ economies. They will also be part of the JPA committee on Social Affairs and Environment which will tackle issues to do with environmental crime, fight against wildlife trafficking and the Impact of the EU Emergency Trust Fund as well as the JPA committee on Political Affairs. @AuxiliaK