Sunungurai Bhiza Sports Reporter THE newly elected Dynamos FC Bulawayo Supporters Chapter executive has been challenged to spread the gospel of love and weed out hooliganism at stadia in the 2018 season. Sunungurai Bhiza, the chapter’s patron said he has been charmed by the executive led by Jubilee Mulilwane which seems committed to fight hooliganism. “Last year we witnessed a number of disturbing incidents of crowd trouble, some of which our members were involved and as a chapter we are saying no to hooliganism. We don’t want to bring the name of our beloved club Dynamos and that of the game into disrepute, hence the challenge to the new executive to spread love, encourage supporters to accept results and be their own police officers. “From the meetings that we’ve held, I’m confident that these guys will stand for the true value of Dynamos and avoid anything that will bring negative publicity for the club,” said Bhiza. Mulilwane was last week elected to the position of the chapter’s chairman and is being deputised by Martin Gwatirera while Blessing Marangwanda is the secretary. Other members of the chapter’s executive committee are vice-secretary Miriam Gasura, organising secretary Timothy Moyo, treasurer Ngonidzashe Madawu,  extension officer who is responsible with the recruitment drive Clayton Maticha, Mike Masvinu the transport officer, security officer Tavengwa Chimwai and committee member Obert Makurumure. The chapter’s secretary, Marangwanda said besides fighting hooliganism, they are going to assist Dynamos whenever they come to Bulawayo for their matches. DeMbare will come to Bulawayo four times this season to play Chicken Inn, Bulawayo City, Bulawayo Chiefs and Highlanders. “Part of our responsibility as a chapter is to mobilise Dynamos supporters in Bulawayo to travel and watch all the team’s games. Like our patron Bhiza said, we will be preaching about love and spreading the anti-hooliganism message. We will also help the team whenever the executive asks us to do when they come to Bulawayo. The chapter is registered with the club and everything will be done accordingly,” said Marangwanda. 