Form Three pupils conduct an experiment in the science laboratory while the teacher observes Higher Learning Centre (HLC) is set to conduct a Science Fair and Open Day on May 19 for learners to witness and carry out science experiments. The programme is open to learners from all formal and non-formal schools (primary and secondary) in Bulawayo. This open day and science fair is meant to identify the next budding scientists in Bulawayo and also highlight the HLC school life. HLC is embarking on this programme to celebrate its 5th year anniversary by giving back to the Bulawayo community through the Science Fair and Open Day. The school’s vision is to lead in producing society builders who excel in all areas of life in Zimbabwe. Therefore, the school will open its doors to the Bulawayo community learners in May to ensure that its vision statement is fulfilled by supporting STEM initiatives. HLC is a private Christian High school that offers Form One to Six classes with a full curriculum and it is now a Cambridge Examination Centre. The school offers a full range of subjects in Commercials, Sciences and Arts in all three levels of high school that is at, Junior Certificate, Ordinary Level and Advanced Level. HLC uses technological and scientific methods in lesson delivery and research and also engages highly qualified and dedicated staff while striving to treat all learners equally. Pupils go through a lesson in the computer laboratory The Science Lab is well equipped with all the apparatus to ensure that the learners do all their science practicals without any inconveniences through the use of technological and scientific methods. The school also has a 50-seater library to meet the learner’s needs in terms of researching and studying. The classrooms are well furnished and the rooms are conducive for learning. HLC seeks to empower and inspire the youth through low teacher to pupil ratio (1:20 maximum), meaning that teachers are able to give each and every pupil maximum concentration to aid full understanding of the subjects taught. The school has state of the art facilities including the Computer Lab, Science Lab, Library, classrooms and courtyards for relaxation during break and lunch hour. The school has a 20 seater well equipped computer lab with free Wi-Fi to aid the learner’s research methods and learning processes. The computer lab is using modern technology to help learners keep up with the pace as far as ICT is concerned. Pupils during a group study in the courtyard The school provides healthy lunch to learners at affordable prices to ensure that they do not study on empty stomachs. During break time and lunch-hour the courtyards are fully utilised by the learners for relaxation purposes before continuing with their lessons. These breaks allow learners to mingle and share about their life experiences in order to groom each other. The school also offers extra-curricular activities in the form of sports and clubs. Some of our prominent sports are basketball, swimming and hockey were in the past two years the school competes with other schools. During the clubs session, our learners are groomed to give back to the community and be socially responsible. In the past years, our learners have visited various orphanages and donated in kind. Learners are also taught biblical solutions to life challenges through comprehensive Bible studies. The aim of the high school is to provide education that will equip professional and life skills that are needed in today’s modern world. The school is an all compassing institution, it does not discriminate learners regardless of their social, economic, religious and cultural background as well as gender (the school creates a homely environment for all learners). Lower Six enrolment is still in progress and vacancies for other forms are still available. The school is situated in a quiet upmarket area along Samuel Parirenyatwa and 6th Avenue and it is open for viewing every Friday from 2PM to 4PM. For more information and enquiries on enrolment, please visit 68 Samuel Parirenyatwa Street or call (09) 60228 or (09) 880268.