Leonard Ncube and Nqobile Sibanda, Chronicle Reporters POLICE have warned members of the public against causing unnecessary panic following the circulation of messages on WhatsApp to the effect that some suspected criminals are kidnapping and beheading children. The public in Bulawayo and Matabeleland North provinces went into a panic mode following WhatsApp messages claiming that some school children had been kidnapped and beheaded in the last few days. According to the “hoax” messages, the suspects were taking the heads to South Africa. One of the WhatsApp messages alleged that some children had been kidnapped in Siachilaba in Binga while some pupils were beheaded in Chisuma outside Victoria Falls. Similar messages were spread in Bulawayo yesterday that unknown people had kidnapped two children along Siyephambili Drive and Mzilikazi suburb. Some parents have since resorted to accompanying their children to school while teachers are encouraging pupils to move in groups. However, police have dismissed the messages as untrue saying no report had been made so far. “We haven’t received any such reports of the so called people who are kidnapping and beheading children in Bulawayo. “If there are any such cases of that nature people should report to the nearest police station or call on our hotline numbers 110 or 999 and also on toll free number 888579. “In any case, we urge members of the public to desist from sending such messages that can cause panic,” said Bulawayo provincial police spokesperson Inspector Precious Simango. Her counterpart in Matabeleland North Inspector Siphiwe Makonese appealed for calm among citizens saying they should stay alert. “We have not received any such report about kidnapping or killing in the province. However, we encourage members of the public to be alert and report any such cases if ever they exist to the nearest police station. Otherwise people should remain calm and such messages should stop if they are not verified,” she said. Hwange District Schools Inspector Mr Germination Moyo said no school had reported any child  missing. “Generally, school heads would report such cases immediately but so far there is no report that has come through. We had a meeting with school heads in Victoria Falls yesterday and none of them made such a report,” said Mr Moyo. The first messages were linked to a case where a serial rapist in Masvingo, Charles Matanga Magombedze, was sentenced to 72 years in jail after being convicted of eight counts of rape last week. @ncubeleon @nqoesibanda82