The Zimbabwe national Under-20 rugby team with the kit they will use in Namibia this week that is sponsored by Seed-Co Mehluli Sibanda in Harare THE Zimbabwe national Under-20 rugby team leaves the country for Namibia this afternoon to take part in the southern leg of the Under-20 Barthes Trophy, a tournament which starts on Wednesday. The Farai “Bob” Mahari coached side will take on the host nation on Wednesday while on the same day Kenya clash with Madagascar in the other semi final with the two winners expected to meet in the final on Friday. The regional winners will then progress to the final African qualifier against the winner of the northern leg consisting of Tunisia, Cote d’Ivoire, Senegal and Morocco with the overall winner to represent the continent at the World Rugby Under-20 Trophy to be held later this year in a yet to be named country. Speaking at a kit handover and final squad announcement in Harare last Friday, former Zimbabwe Under-20 coach, Godwin “Jaws” Murambiwa challenged the boys to treat the Namibian game with the seriousness it deserves. Murambiwa, the Zimbabwe Under-20 head coach from 2005 to 2007 said if the Young Sables do not win against Namibia, then they will face prospects of playing up to stay in the top group in the continent. SeedCo are back as kit sponsors for the Young Sables having done so in the past but had stopped for some time. The company’s head of public relations and communications, Marjorie Mutemererwa, said as sponsors they were impressed by the direction the game is taking under the leadership of Zimbabwe Rugby Union president Aaron Jani. Coach Mahari expressed his gratitude to the Zimbabwe Under-20 committee chairman Itai Chataura, the parents and the sponsors for the wonderful job they did in preparing the players for the trip to Namibia. He challenged his players to go out and win the competition where Zimbabwe were last champions in 2011. The Young Sables have been in camp at Peterhouse Boys in Marondera prior to their departure for Namibia. Centre Matthew McNab will lead the Young Sables with lock Godfrey Muzanaro as his deputy. Zimbabwe Under-20 squad Cleopas Kundiona, Sam Garnett, Munashe Kujeke, Cameron Harrison, Victor Mupunga, Godfrey Magaramombe, Joshua Mukurazhizha, Malvern Nyakuedzwa, Blithe Mavesere, Tichaona Hwangwa, Tinashe Chaza, Tonderai Chiwambutsa, Godfrey Muzanaro (vice-captain), Connor McMillan, Jeremiah Jaravaza, Nigel Tinarwo, Tinotenda Savanhu, Taine Roelofsz, Matthew McNab(captain), Mazvitaishe Nyamarebvu, Rufaro Chikwaira, Julian Tafireyi, Cosmas Mubaiwa, Munashe Kamunda, Martin Mangongo Coach: Farai Maharai Assistant coach: Jeffrey Madhake Team manager: Shingirai Mutseyekwa Physiotherapist: Abigail Mnikwa Fitness trainer: Mark Wilson — @Mdawini_29