Justice Martin Makonese Leonard Ncube in Hwange A HIGH Court judge has urged politicians and aspiring candidates in the upcoming harmonised elections to desist from fuelling violence among members of the public. Addressing various stakeholders who included traditional leaders, captains of industry, members of the judiciary and legal fraternity as well as the public at the official opening of the Hwange circuit, Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Martin Makonese said the courts would not hesitate to deal with any malcontents. “As we draw closer to the harmonised elections, I urge all those vying for political office to heed the call by President Mnangagwa to shun violence. The courts will deal with all those fingered in acts of political violence in the appropriate manner,” Justice Makonese warned. President Mnangagwa has reiterated the need to shun political violence as he called for peace to prevail in the country. In this regard, Justice Makonese added, other stakeholders including the ZRP and National Prosecuting Authority must play their respective roles in arresting, investigating and speedily bringing suspects to court. The call for politicians to shun violence comes in the wake of clashes between MDC-T supporters in Bulawayo on Sunday. Justice Makonese also called for urgent attention to living conditions in the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services institutions. He said the protection of human rights of convicted prisoners is a matter of urgent priority. Justice Makonese welcomed plans to pardon more than 3 000 inmates as part of the 100-day plan as the development would decongest prisons. “The government is urged speed up the release of pardoned prisoners as prison conditions have generally deteriorated in recent years. The congestion in our prisons is a ticking time bomb which if not handled carefully could result in health risks to inmates,” said Justice Makonese. He said challenges such as a shortage of basic essentials such as food, medicines and clothing in prisons is a violation of the rights of prisoners. — @ncubeleon