Simon Khaya Moyo Farirai Machivenyika, Harare Bureau THE Zanu-PF Politburo has ruled that its former members who were expelled for links with the G40 cabal will have to seek re-admission in 2023. The Politburo met yesterday in Harare. Zanu-PF expelled at least 16 members of the criminal cabal that had surrounded former President Mr Robert Mugabe as part of attempts to propel former First Lady Grace Mugabe to succeed her husband. The ruling party’s spokesperson, Cde Simon Khaya Moyo, made the announcement soon after the 317th Ordinary Session of the Politburo. “Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri gave a report on disciplinary hearings,” he said. “Members expelled and confirmed by the Extra-Ordinary Congress of 2017 remain, of course, expelled and can only re-apply if they wish after five years,” Cde Khaya Moyo said. Those whose expulsion was confirmed by the Extra-Ordinary Congress included Mrs Mugabe, Messrs Ignatius Chombo, Saviour Kasukuwere, Jonathan Moyo, Kudzanai Chipanga and Ms Mandiitawepi Chimene. Also expelled were Messrs Walter Mzembi, Makhosini Hlongwane, Samuel Undenge, Tapiwa Matangaidze, Paul Chimedza, Mrs Eunice Sandi Moyo, Mr Shadreck Mashayamombe, Ms Sarah Mahoka, Mr Daniel Shumba, Mr Wonder Mashange and Mr Jeppy Jaboon. Ms Anastancia Ndlovu was also among those dismissed. Mr Chipanga had, however, written a letter apologising for his links with the G40 cabal and sought re-admission into the revolutionary party. There were also reports that Mr Mzembi and Ms Ndlovu had approached the ruling party seeking readmission. Cde Khaya Moyo said Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri had also been advised to inform provincial chairpersons on procedures in dealing with disciplinary issues they were handling. “She will also communicate to all provincial chairpersons regarding disciplinary issues affecting each province as agreed by the Politburo,” he said. “In other words, measures would be communicated to her on how these matters would be handled. We abide by the party’s constitution and Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri will communicate the same and more detail to the provincial chairpersons.” Cde Khaya Moyo said the Politburo approved a report on the party’s regalia which was presented by Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri. The Politburo could not discuss other issues concerning the election manifesto and guidelines for the conduct of primary elections because of the tight schedule President Mnangagwa had yesterday.