Lloyd Mutasa Eddie Chikamhi, Harare Bureau Dynamos 3-3 Shabanie Mine Dynamos experienced a bitter Castle Lager Premiership homecoming show at Rufaro yesterday after the Glamour Boys sensationally collapsed and gave away what seemed a healthy three-goal advantage to settle for a share of the spoils in a six-goal thriller against a determined Shabanie Mine. The Harare giants’ youth brigade failed to defend their fort in the last 25 minutes of the game after Valentine Kadonzvo, Kudzanai Dhemere and Quality Kangadze had given them a 3-0 advantage. Midway through the second half, it had looked like it had been done and dusted and Dynamos appeared to have found just the strong response they needed after suffering a 1-0 reverse to Chicken Inn in their 2018 season opener in Bulawayo last weekend. But joy soon turned to anguish for the DeMbare fans as their team were in the end forced to actually scramble for the draw as Shabanie finished the stronger of the two sides. Shabanie Mine rallied back courtesy of a double strike from David Temwanjira and former DeMbare man Richard Kawondera with the Chinda Boys’ marksmen finding the target inside a 13-minute spell. For the Dynamos faithful, it was a painful reminder of a similar capitulation against Caps United at the National Sports Stadium two years ago when they conceded three goals in the last five minutes of the Harare Derby which ended 3-3. Stand-in Dynamos coach, Biggie Zuze, attributed the collapse to bad defending. Lloyd Mutasa is away with the Warriors who travelled to Ndola, Zambia for a Four-nation Invitational tournament. Exciting winger, Kadonzvo, gave DeMbare the advantage their early adventure deserved when he ghosted in from the back post and latched on to a high ball from right back Blessing Moyo with 30 minutes played. But there were chances for both sides with Raphael Manuvire in good form. Earlier on the midfielder had produced one clever chip over the defenders to release Kangadze who somehow dragged his shot wide when coming face to face with the goalkeeper Petros Moyo. Shabanie looked comfortable on the ball and they also had their chances in the first half with two-goal hero Temwanjira and Macdonald Makuwe, son of former Hwange and DeMbare winger, Joseph Makuwe, coming close.