Sibusiso Sibanda Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter THE Matabeleland Amateur Swimming Board (MASB) is confident that their team will bring home gold from the National Junior Swimming Championships which start today and end tomorrow. The MASB 61-member squad left for Harare yesterday. The team is made up of 32 boys and 29 girls. Selected swimmers from the Under-8 to the Under-12 age groups were drawn from local clubs, Petra Swimming Academy, Zambezi Tigers, Barracudas, Falcon, Stingrays, Crusaders, School of Swimming, Dolphins and Penguins. MASB press liaison officer Thomas Werret said: “The players are in high spirits and the team is showing loads of confidence which is great. We hope to come out tops. I believe we have selected the best capable side to win us gold.” Defending champions Mashonaland Province will be hoping to continue their dominance in the competition. The other provinces participating at the competition are Manicaland, Midlands, Mashonaland Country District (MCD), Masvingo and Matabeleland. Matabeleland will pin their hopes on Chloe Werrett, Tichatonga Makaya, Onesimus Ngwenya, Mbali Sibanda and Onye Onovo, who recently broke three provincial records. Meanwhile, Mashonaland Province retained the aggregate trophy of the National Swimming Championships held at the City Pool last month. Mashonaland Province dominated both the boys’ and girls’ swimming events to amass 2 957 points, while hosts Matabeleland were second with 2 074 points. Mashonaland Country Districts were a distant third with 190 points. Matabeleland Squad Chloe Werrett, Daniel Connolly, Kudzai Chapepa, Patrick Duff, Shumi Zvenyika, Abake Moyo, Kelsey De Swardt, Daniel Oxden-Willows, Adrianna Bhana, Joshah Siwela, Grace Hensman, Liam Chicksen, Mbali Sibanda, Sibusiso Fayayo, Ryah Mason, Nsikelelo Sibanda, Shayna Middleton, Kwandokuhle Nkomazana, Savanna Smith, Nicolas Roukounis, Jayden Weale, Courtney Banda, Tinotenda Chiwara, Kundai Alexio Chigariro, Onye Onovo, Onesimus Ngwenya, Chante Querl, Tichatonga Makaya, Avril Carinus, Ruan Nel Jade Chicksen, Jayden de Swardt, Desiree Soganile, Kayden Bhana, Zoe Gangira, Romeo Kahwema, Nozintaba Masiye-Moyo, Darren Ncube, Morgan Liddle, Vidal Bravo, Pamela Ncube, Mitchell Stanley Nadia Gorenykin, Emmanuel Sibanda, Olivia Accorsi, Cameron Rae, Caitlyn O’Donnell, Pearson Mumba, Makhosazana Nkomazana, Reece Rollo, Thapelo Nare, Yolanda Netsha, Tawanda Jani, Nomaqhua Ndlovu, Khaya Vimba, Mary Hensman, Tyler Varley, Kaelyn Manuel, Odinaka Onwuchukwa, Sibusiso Sibanda, Fanuel Zvenyika.