Morgen Komichi Nduduzo Tshuma /Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Reporters MDC-T yesterday fired one of its vice presidents, Dr Thokozani Khupe, national organising secretary Mr Abednigo Bhebhe and spokesperson Mr Obert Gutu for “unconstitutional behaviour, holding illegal meetings and bringing the party’s name into disrepute.” The resolution was made during the meeting of the party’s national council, the supreme-decision-making body in between congresses, in Harare which also formally accepted the resignation of Mr Lovemore Moyo from the MDC-T and his position as national chairman. The expulsion of the three brings to an end a dramatic battle for the control of the MDC-T that has dragged for more than a month. In a statement, the party’s deputy national chairperson, Mr Morgen Komichi said the trio was also accused of holding illegal meetings and throwing the party into disrepute. “On VP Khupe, the national council noted the efforts for engagement made by the party president (Advocate Nelson Chamisa) but VP Khupe remained stubborn, obdurate, intransigent and spurned all party efforts to address her grievances as she continued to hold illegal meetings and partake in unconstitutional activities, putting the party into disrepute and undermining the constitutional organs of the party. The national council therefore resolved, by more than the mandatory two thirds of the vote that VP Khupe be removed from the party in terms of the party constitution,” said Mr Komichi. He said the party formally accepted Mr Moyo’s resignation tendered on Thursday and wished him well in his future endeavours. Mr Moyo cited what he called the unconstitutional power grab by party leader Mr Chamisa, sexism, tribalism and violence in the MDC-T as reasons for his resignation. “On organising secretary Hon Abednigo Bhebhe, the national council by more than the mandatory two thirds of the vote resolved to remove him from the party on allegations of his unconstitutional behaviour and for continuously putting the party into disrepute,” said Mr Komichi. “On suspended party spokesperson Mr Obert Chaurura Gutu, the national council resolved by a unanimous vote to expel him.” Mr Komichi said the party also resolved to recall Dr Khupe and Mr Bhebhe from Parliament with immediate effect. Mr Bhebhe represented Nkayi South while Dr Khupe was under the proportional representation. MDC-T presidential spokesperson Mr Luke Tamborinyoka said after the national council ultimatum calling Dr Khupe and her colleagues to order elapsed on March 8, Mr Chamisa personally engaged the former Deputy Prime Minister in Bulawayo. “I can tell you he met her in Bulawayo for five hours and the meeting stretched until 1AM in an attempt to resolve the impasse. This was far beyond the ultimatum that was given by the national council, all this speaks to efforts to engage our former Cde,” said Mr Tamborinyoka. Mr Gutu, however, dismissed their expulsion as a “big joke” arguing that they are the real MDC-T. He dismissed the national council and Mr Chamisa as renegades. Dr Khupe has been involved in a vicious battle over the control of the MDC-T from the days leading to the death of party founding leader Morgan Tsvangirai, who died in February and after his burial. Despite Mr Chamisa’s endorsement by the MDC-T national executive as the party’s leader, Dr Khupe has refused to recognise him arguing that she was the rightful heir to the presidency on the basis that she is the only elected official among the late Tsvangirai’s deputies. Before Mr Tsvangirai’s death, Dr Khupe, Mr Moyo and Mr Bhebhe had fallen out with him over the formation of an alliance of opposition parties to challenge the ruling Zanu-PF in this year’s election.