Ambassador Harry K Thomas Jnr Innocent Ruwende, Harare Bureau Outgoing US ambassador to Zimbabwe, Harry K Thomas Jnr, has hailed President Mnangagwa for delivering on his promises saying he has created excitement among investors who are now jostling for opportunities in the country. Speaking at his farewell roundtable in Harare yesterday, he said the American Embassy’s economic section has never been busier with investors calling to inquire about investment opportunities in Zimbabwe. “Everything he told us he was going to do on elections he has done. He extended the registration period, invited international monitors and observers so he has been okay. We are very happy on the progress made on BVR,” he said. “There are always problems here just like there are in the United States but if you imagine where we were six months ago and where we are today it is a big change. I think Zimbabweans were almost depressed six months ago. Now you are all impatient. It has been an interesting thing to see,” he said. “Business persons who want to learn about Zimbabwe are calling us every day. We are busier than we were before especially our economic officers so it has been a big change. There are several delegations, which are coming up so you are going to see that.” He said global business persons were also contacting other embassies as they are eager to visit. Ambassador Thomas Jnr said he was extremely optimistic about bilateral and multilateral relations between Zimbabwe and America. “You will see more coming down and you will also see American politicians coming here, Non-Governmental Organisations so I think there is a lot of excitement under the new dispensation. I wish good for this country that I have lived in for five years and two months of my life on two different occasions.” “It is the place I have lived more other than the United States. On a very personal level I wish Zimbabwe only the best because of such tremendous human capital. I know if given the opportunity this country will soar there is no reason for this country not to be wealthy in terms of the economy.” The ambassador laughed uncontrollably when asked if he was going to bid farewell to former president Robert Mugabe. “You have a good sense of humour. I will call on current President Mnangagwa as diplomatic protocol,” he said. On sanctions he said they were issued by executive order and they are reissued every year with the key being free and fair elections and economic reforms. He said in a few weeks the American senior political leaders who are responsible for lifting sanctions or waiving sanctions are going to visit the country. “I would ask them because that is their responsibility. I think we have to give the Zimbabwean Government time (for reforms) because they have only been in office for a very short time to make good on their promises but they are off to a very good start in terms of BVR and new Zimbabwe Elections Commission chairperson.” “They have invited international monitors and observers. For the first time we will have American monitors and observers since perhaps 1980. The European Union technical team is already here and I think it is going to be great. Nothing is perfect but it is up to you to ensure that your politicians deliver on their promises.” Ambassador Thomas Jnr said he will miss Zimbabwe’s weather and the flora and fauna as well as Oliver Mtukudzi and Jah Prayzah’s music. He said he would have wanted to attend Thomas Mapfumo’s homecoming show. Ambassador Thomas Jnr is retiring after 34 years in US Foreign Service.