Thulani Sibanda Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter NEWLY promoted Premiership club Bulawayo Chiefs have allayed fears that they would be the next topflight side to fold after How Mine. A deepening financial crisis forced How Mine, one of the country’s leading gold producers, to surrender their Premiership franchise on Wednesday. How Mine’s decision to pull out of the topflight league sparked debate on social media, with most people wondering if Bulawayo Chiefs, who are bankrolled by small scale miner Lovemore Sibanda, will survive. Sibanda has been bankrolling Bulawayo Chiefs since its formation in 2012. The club once sold its Premiership franchise to Bantu Rovers after winning the 2013 Southern Region Division One league title. James Rugwevere, Bulawayo Chiefs’ chairman, said they were ready for the season kick-off. “Our message to the people of Bulawayo is that we’re ready to play in the Premiership. They should get ready for the new kid on the block. We’re not coming to the PSL to just make up numbers, we are coming to effectively compete,” said Rugwevere. Regarding their financial status, Rugwevere said: “We don’t have a taxing budget. We told the players about our position that we can only pay what we can afford. They agreed to our offer and we are ready to roll. Actually we’ve also paid our affiliation fee to the PSL just to show how committed we are to play in the Premiership.” Bulawayo Chiefs have been conducting their pre-season preparations at Ross Camp ground under the watchful eye of multi-First Division championship winning coach, Thulani Sibanda. Sibanda will not be in the team’s dugout in the opening games together with assistant coach Mduduzi Mpofu, as both are ineligible since they don’t a Caf A coaching badge. Unheralded Garthly Chipuka will take up the head coach position, while Sibanda works on attaining a Caf A badge. Meanwhile, Bulawayo Chiefs have retained the bulk of players that won them promotion to the Premiership. Goalkeeper Kelvin Nyoni, defender Moses Majika, attacking midfielders Arthur Musiiwa and Perfect Chikwende as well as young striker Farawo Matare are among the players who formed the core of the team in Division One. Former Njube Sundowns, Shabanie Mine and Tsholotsho FC striker Dylan Chivandire as well as ex-FC Platinum and Caps United defender Last Sithole are some of the experienced players that have been acquired by Bulawayo Chiefs to steady the ship. —  @ZililoR