The Bulawayo Basketball Association receives equipment from Japan International Cooperation Agency yesterday Sports Reporter THE Bulawayo Baseball Association got a timely boost to complement their efforts to revive the sport in the city when the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) donated baseball equipment yesterday. The equipment consisted of baseball balls, gloves, bats, catcher masks, helmets catcher protectors and uniforms. Speaking at the handover, JICA coordinator Takashi Shirata said they were eager to contribute to the development of baseball in the city and the country as a whole. “The equipment will attract more youths to baseball. We expect the association to nature and identify talent so as to develop the sport in communities. “We are imploring the Bulawayo community, youths and the old to embrace this gesture and utilise the skills taught by coaches like Zimbabwean-based Japanese gaffer Naoki Taniyama. He (Taniyama) applied for donations of these baseball items in August 2017 and now they are here. “Taniyama has done a great job here in Bulawayo assisting in the development of grassroots baseball something we commend,” said Shirata. Bulawayo Baseball Association representative Washington Nyika said: “We are gratified by the timely donation as it has eased some burdens on us. At some point baseball had gone extinct in the city but we are working hard to revive the sport, this gesture by JICA will go a long way in ensuring that the standards of the game improve in the country”. Sports and Recreation Commission Provincial Coordinator Sam Dzvimbu hailed JICA for their continuous support of the sport. “As SRC we are elated with the kind gesture from JICA. We hope they continue to assist in every way possible. We hope this will reach all youngsters in our communities not only in Bulawayo but the whole country and possibly Zimbabwe will become one of the giants in the world. “We hope the association puts this equipment to good use. A decade ago we had a vibrant programme for baseball at our western schools and l am happy the sport has moved to the central schools which means baseball is growing,” he said. 