Councillor Silas Chigora (centre) prepares to break the ground at the commissioning of residential stands in Magwegwe North, Bulawayo yesterday Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter Bulawayo City Council yesterday commissioned 490 residential stands in Magwegwe North suburb with more expected to be availed later this year as part of the local authority’s rapid results approach. The fully serviced stands are part of the pre-sell projects that council is implementing. Director of Engineering Services Engineer Simela Dube said the project commenced on February 24 after being awarded to Asphalt Products. It was initially expected to take 22 weeks but was extended by another 20 weeks due to delays in its commencement as a result of rains. “Currently there are three other servicing projects that are running , that is Luveve with 870 stands which is 85 percent complete , Magwegwe West with 390 high density stands and Emganwini/Tshabalala with 365 high density stands expected to be completed soon as progress of both projects is now above 50 percent,” said Eng Dube. He said his department is preparing for the next stands to be serviced through tenders. These are Mahatshula East with 670 medium density stands and Emhlangeni Phase Two with 541 medium density stands. “We would like to reiterate that we are committed to ensuring that we meet our targets for the 100 day rapid results initiative in infrastructure and utilities cluster by facilitating provision of water supply and wastewater collection including roads and infrastructure,” he said. Eng Dube said this is meant to improve the standard of living for the communities through provision of decent housing as per the social services and poverty eradication cluster of Zim-Asset. “Lastly, I would like to appeal to the community to continue to look after the infrastructure that has been installed and to prevent any form vandalism so that these services can last a long time,” he said. Eng Dube said the project faced some challenges among them the increased cost of importing tar for the roads, foreign currency and cash challenges bedeviling the country as well as large volumes of rock which had to be blasted from the trenches and major earth works removal from the site. In a speech read on his behalf by councillor Silas Chigora, Bulawayo deputy mayor Councilor Gift Banda said the local authority had a target of providing 5 000 housing stands during its tenure which ends in a few months. “One of the key objectives of the City of Bulawayo’s rapid results approach is the provision of serviced housing stands. Out target is to ensure provision of water supply and water collection including roads infrastructure when we provide housing infrastructure in Bulawayo. This in line with the Zimbabwe Agenda for Sustainable Socio-Economic Transformation (Zim-Asset) which seeks to provide decent housing with a target of 5 000 housing stands during its tenure,” said Clr Banda Present at the commissioning was Bulawayo Town clerk Mr Christopher Dube, local councillors, residents, staff from Asphalt Products, Bulawayo Residents’ Association chairman and Mr Winos Dube among others. — @AuxiliaK.