Advocate Jacob Mudenda Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls SPEAKER of the National Assembly Advocate Jacob Mudenda has called on the private sector to play a leading role in lobbying for legislative reform processes that enhance ease of doing business in the country. Speaking during a recent business conference here, Adv Mudenda said Parliament was being underutilised in respect of investment legislative reform process as the business community was not coming forth with suggestions. He said businesses have a Constitutional right to force reforms through Parliament or to “clean” the House of Assembly if they feel its failing on its mandate. “We are not getting petitions from business yet the Constitution invites you as business to clean legislation. You have a right to clean up Parliament and you also have a role to reform legislation to promote business,” said Adv Mudenda. He challenged the business sector to use Parliament and complement President Mnangagwa’s drive to restore confidence in the economy. Adv Mudenda was responding to concerns by participants about some Government policies that they said were not conducive for ease of doing business. Earlier, businesspersons had requested quarterly meetings with President Mnangagwa saying they were willing to work with Government. They, however, called on Government to review some policies saying at times the bureaucracy was tiresome as prospective investors have to go through several processes for clearance and licences. One participant blamed the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority for the demise of some businesses saying the revenue authority was harsh on business. “Zimra operates like a police station where people go to be charged. You wonder who they are collecting revenue from when business is dead. You hear that in February Zimra surpassed its target and do we have industrial growth in the country for Zimra to collect that much?” Business leaders said for the past 37 years their existence and contribution as business was not significant due to interference and intimidation by the previous Government. They said they were now confident that the new dispensation will engage in dialogue and enable them to participate in the economy as private enterprises. — @ncubeleon