 Morris Mpala, MoB Capital Ltd BULAWAYO, a cultural hub and strategic economic coordinate for Zimbabwe and the whole of Africa, has declined in business and population. The question is do we need re-industrialisation or just industrialisation? Some industries are better off dead (forget them)  and we need to create new industries based on what we can do best against other players in the economic space. Strategic industries need revival and urgently so. Without emotions let’s discuss the Bulawayo economy we all need. We-are-better-than-Harare syndrome There is no reason to benchmark Bulawayo with Harare that is lowering the standards. Think globally and act locally. Global village decorum demands we measure Bulawayo future economy and socio-economic values on a global scale not Harare. Idea generation The need to continuously generate fresh and solution finding areas is critical in the process of industrialisation. Growth is associated with great ideas to develop the industry . Bulawayo radius Can a radius of the existing boundaries carry an industrial revolution that rivals world economic standards? With the new ideas and limited land, will the agenda for industrialisation be accommodated adequately enough or we are thinking of services that do not require physical land but artificial intelligence space? Bulawayo population If industry is ignited and of the services/products that would be on offer, is the local market big enough before we talk of outside markets? Do we still have the skills base to support the industrialisation that includes re-industrialisation that needs previous experience and new superb talented brains to create a new economic order. Do we really know the correct population and the ideal one to support industrialisation? Same faces, same narrative Same narrative and expecting different results is economic madness and won’t cut it if the Bulawayo economy is to grow . We have listened to the same economic actors for too long. Change the voice. Change the message and the messenger for a revolution to commence. Comparative advantage With the help of focus groups, strategists and think thanks and armed with evidence from research data, comparative advantages are derived and the economy ride on this. Past glory and wishful thinking do not make success stories nor do they bring glory; meticulous planning does. Business talent Nurturing of new business talent that makes us see the future now. In this field we expect an understanding banking services, an incubation approach to young business adventures given its start ups we are looking for towards economic salvation. In addition, business have to be big enough to enjoy economies of scale and offer competitive services and products within and without Bulawayo. Unity of purpose A house divided will not stand. One big voice is usually heard louder than numerous lone voices with no strategic approach. Bulawayo does not need affirmative action, but relevant solutions to all its socio-economic challenges. Harness local resources then seek outside alternatives after exhausting internal initiatives. Local Government An enabling environment by and large is recommended. Does the capacity, willingness to offer a conducive environment exist? We are not talking about wide roads and clean streets, we are talking about the ability to nurture all business beyond tomorrow in all facets of business financial well-being. Special Economic Zones (SEZs) A concept talked by many but misunderstood in the grand scheme of things. Let’s think SEZs across the greater Bulawayo region not just pockets of industries. SEZs are not the silver bullet for Bulawayo. There is no evidence to support such and as a result banking on these will leave Bulawayo in disarray when my worst fears (SEZs not applicable if it’s not exports) come true. This is the time to be selfish and only think Bulawayo and what it’s needs are. We don’t eat potential Potential alone is nothing if it is not realised. Rome was not built in day, but they never tell you that Rome was built daily stone by stone until the marvel you see today. Bulawayo needs to claim its place in the global village now and stop this potential nonsense as its an illusion. Results are needed. Talk shows As we continue with talk shows and hoping these platforms create a paradigm shift and possibly ignite debate that propel concrete action plans to industrialise. When we debate, let’s avoid emotions but be factual and transformational in tone. Bulawayo Diaspora These make great ambassadors for the Bulawayo economy in trying to tell a story, sell a narrative to bring about investments into the city’s economy. Sons and daughters of the greater Bulawayo region make a better marketing regime since charity begins at home . Way forward There is no monopoly to ideas and it is upon the residents to take ownership of their destiny. No one will ring a bell for a way forward if it is time; everyone will feel it and no one will be told what to do. If it’s time it will happen and action will be the order of the day otherwise lackadaisical to no growth will reign supreme. Numerous articles have been done on this subject matter thus need to read and consult widely for a better implementation of most resolutions made about the Bulawayo economy. The call is for everyone to appreciate that they are the spark needed to ignite an economic revolution like no other as Bulawayo is not a preserve for a minority few but for everyone. Ask not what Bulawayo has done for you but what have you done for Bulawayo. “Asakheni uBulawayo wethu omuhle . . .” IF YOU LIVE IN BULAWAYO PLEASE CONSERVE WATER IF YOU LIVE IN ZIMBABWE PLEASE USE ELECTRICITY SPARINGLY SWITCH OFF SWITCHES (SOS) IF YOU LIVE ON PLANET EARTH PLEASE PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT Morris Mpala is the managing director of MoB Capital Limited, a Bulawayo-headquartered micro-finance institution with footprint across the country.