 Yoliswa Dube GIRLS like two things. They like nice things and they like free things. Some will go for cheap but free is generally preferred. Okay, maybe I’m being stereotypical but nah, girls like things — period. I guess it’s part of being feminine; you’ll always want to have pretty things and pamper yourself with nice things. You’re simply being a woman if you want to look good and smell fresh. But it’s not all of us who are willing to invest in genuine beauty products. My biggest shocker has always been of women who buy face powder from vendors selling it for $2 apiece. I mean, are you out of your mind to be buying counterfeit products and expecting magical results! It’s the same as girls who buy $1 lip gloss. Girl, do you love those lips enough to settle for $1 products that will leave your lips dry and chapped. You’re lucky if you don’t develop a rash. My mother taught me well. She said, “These fancy things will cause you problems if you’re not careful. You grew up on Camphor Cream and Vaseline and you turned out just fine. Why change now?” I mean, I did — I was a pretty kid, if I may say so myself! I’ll never forget back when I was in Form Three and tried some vanishing cream because I thought Camphor Cream wasn’t good enough no more. That cream was the curse! I developed pimples that still traumatise me when I think about them today. The lesson was simple — stay away from products whose manufacturer you’ve never heard of. Since then, I’ve learnt to keep my skin care regime simple. Very simple. This has worked well for me over the years. I scrub with a mealie-meal and water paste once every two weeks, wash with mild soap and just water, no towel, twice every day and apply Camphor Cream. Of course my regime won’t necessarily work for you, we have different skin types but the point is — when it comes to your skin, keep it as simple as possible. Don’t buy beauty products from street vendors or your friend who’s getting them cheap somewhere. If you’re not getting the product from a pharmacy, you better be getting it from a reputable supermarket or departmental store. Remember to always check for the expiration date on the product packaging. Try hard not to constantly be trying out new products on your skin. It’s a fragile organism which when offended will take a whole lot of time to heal! If you try a new product and your skin acts up, don’t be quick to get a new cream to try and fix the problem. Discontinue use of the product you reacted to, strip things down and go back to basics; allow your skin some time to heal. If your skin starts feeling tight, it means it’s drying out and you need to moisturise. If it’s oily and shiny, slow down on the moisturiser — over moisturising is a problem on its own. Always be careful what you eat, your diet has a huge impact on how your skin looks. Avoid junk food — all the delicious things that we all love but are bad for us — stay away. If you can’t keep away from them, at least moderate your intake. Drink lots of water and avoid fizzy drinks and all those fatty foods. Never go to bed with make-up on your face. Make-up is dirt; it will clog your pores and cause pimples. I know sometimes you’re too lazy or too tired but try to make the trip to the sink to wash your face before you sleep every night. And please, pretty please, stay away from those cheap counterfeit products you like to buy from your cousin who gets them cheap from South Africa. Trust me, if you take good care of your skin, it will return the favour! Until next week, flaunt your pattern and style and don’t forget to catch up with me on Twitter handle @Yolisswa.