 Mehluli Sibanda in Harare West Indies 198 (Lewis 66, Samuels 51, Sharif 3/27, Wheal 3/34) beat Scotland 125/5 (Berrington 33, Munsey 32*, Roach 2/20, Nurse 2/35) by five runs on Duckworth/Lewis method WEST Indies qualified for the 2019 International Council Cricket World Cup with a five-run victory over Scotland in a rain affected, exciting Qualifier Super Six contest at Harare Sports Club yesterday. The Windies, who at some stage looked in danger of not going to England and Wales next year had the rain to thank for their qualification. Scotland bowled brilliantly to wipe out West Indies for 198 in 48.4 overs. The heavens, however, opened up with the Scots on 125 for five in 35.2 overs. Windies finished on eight points while Scotland ended with five points. Scotland must feel hard done by a decision to give out their top scorer, Richard Berrington leg before wicket when the ball looked like it was going down the leg side. Berrington was adjudged to have been trapped in front by off spinner Ashley Nurse for 33 runs in contentious circumstances. Kyle Coetzer, the Scotland decried the decision by umpire Paul Wilson of Australia to give out Berrington which effectively cost them a chance to head to the World Cup. “It was a hard fought game of cricket all round, we feel pretty rough right now, there is a bit of emotion going around and clearly that, the lbw decision is not sitting very well with us right now, it’s not the first one in this tournament, in a competition like this and it comes down to a big game like that,’’ Coetzer said. Jason Holder exults after picking up a wicket It is now up to Zimbabwe, Afghanistan and Ireland to seal the one slot remaining with whoever finishes second to take on West Indies in the final at Harare Sports Club on Sunday. Zimbabwe take on United Arab Emirates at Harare Sports Club today while Afghanistan and Ireland clash at the same venue tomorrow. Coezter must have been delighted after winning the toss and opting to bowl when man of the match, pace bowler Safyaan Sharif had two wickets in quick succession. Master blaster, Christopher Gayle was the first to go, edging one to be caught behind by Matthew Cross. West Indies did not add any runs before losing, Shai Hope dismissed for a six-ball duck, cross again with the catch behind. Opener Evan Lewis and Marlon Samuels put the Windies on the recovery path with a 121-run partnership for the third wicket. Lewis got to his third half century prior to falling leg before to Brad Wheal. Samuels perished for 51, off spinner Michael Leask getting brilliantly taken in the deep by Tom Sole. With the next delivery, Leask had Shimron Hetmyer taken behind by Cross for four to put himself on course for a hat trick. Rovman Powell survived the hat trick delivery. Carlos Brathwaite contributed a vital 24 off 26 deliveries as he took the Windies close to 200. West Indies put up a spirited bowling display saw Coezter fall early, dismissed by Kemar Roach, brilliantly taken at backward point by Lewis. Cross went for four, chopping one onto his stumps to be bowled by Jason Holder. Roach had his second wicket, Michael Jones caught by Powell to leave the Scots three down for 25 runs. Just as Scotland were looking to build a partnership, Ashley Nurse dived well to his left to dismiss Calum MacLeod caught and bowled. Berrington went in unfortunate circumstances in the 32nd over and that is the decision that could have cost Scotland a place at next’s year World Cup. Heavy rain forced the teams off the field of play and they did not return with the match called off West Indies winning it on the Duckworth/Lewis method. @Mdawini_29