Clr Hubert Fidze Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent MASVINGO residents have demanded the reversal of a $3 road levy introduced by Masvingo City Council saying they were not consulted. The road levy came into effect last month. Residents’ representatives said the decision must be reversed until proper procedures are followed. Masvingo United Ratepayers and Residents Alliance spokesperson, Mr Godfrey Mutimba, said residents were shocked to see the new road levy reflecting on their water bills. “We have learnt with regret that our council has introduced a $3 road levy without residents’ consent,” said Mr Mutimba. He said residents were already debt-ridden as they had outstanding water bills and council was threatening to unleash debt collectors. “This is unacceptable; the local authority should not implement this road levy until proper consultations are done. Otherwise, we would be confrontational, as residents. “Residents are already struggling to settle their outstanding bills and council has threatened to engage debt collectors, to recover outstanding monies,” he said. Community Working Group on Health provincial chairperson Mrs Entrance Takaidza said council was violating residents’ rights through the arbitrary introduction of rates. “By right, council should consider that residents are major stakeholders who should not be overlooked when such decisions are done. “In 2016, we paid $2 road levy for some time but we were not given a synopsis of what was realised from our contributions. “We deserve to be engaged over what we are expected to pay instead of receiving statements with additional payments that have not been explained to us,” said Mrs Takaidza. Mayor, Councillor Hubert Fidze, said the decision to introduce the road levy was above board. “Consultations were done and most residents are fully aware. All eight councillors held meetings with residents in their respective wards and if residents representatives were not informed it could have been due to communication breakdown,” said Clr Fidze. He said there was transparency in the administration of the road levy. The mayor said in 2016 council realised at least $400 000 from the levy. He said the money was used to buy road making equipment. — @walterbmswazie3