Graeme Cremer Justice Simango The countdown is finally over! President Emmerson Mnangagwa has shown his appreciation by extending a warm welcome through a dinner event held in Harare recently with all the teams that will be taking part in the 2019 International Cricket Council (ICC) Cricket World Cup qualifiers. Zimbabwe plays host to this inaugural tournament and cricket lovers in the country cannot wait for what promises to be a mouth-watering cricket extravaganza. President Mnangagwa has called on the teams to uphold high moral ethics to maintain and hold close dignity and fair play associated with the gentlemen’s game. To encourage people to come in their numbers and experience world class cricket, Zimbabwe Cricket (ZC) announced that, there will be free entry to all the matches to be played in Bulawayo, Harare and Kwekwe respectively. The excitement did not end there, the City of Bulawayo together with different stakeholders and volunteers recently held a successful clean-up campaign that left Queens Sports Club and surrounding areas spick and span. Our very own representatives, the Zimbabwe men’s national cricket team, the Chevrons, are ready to make the nation proud on home soil and now with all the tones set high, the challenge is left in the hands of the spectators and commentators of the games. Likewise, I will definitely be part of the grand stand cheer leaders on the opening match of the qualifiers but there are a few house-keeping sports etiquette rules that should be followed especially with this particular sport. I enjoy watching the gentlemen’s game; the atmosphere in which it is played, the mutual respect which umpires and players in opposing teams have for one another and after all it’s the only sport in the world where players break for lunch, tea and drinks making it favourable for outing with friends and family. Each one of us has been to a game before, or at least watch Olympic Games on television, and apart from the main actors of the game, we have observed how referees, coaches, teammates on the bench, commentators in the commentary box and fans behave before, during and after the game. I have seen supporters who yell obscenities at the players and umpires and parents who belittle other people’s children for making a bad play. Negative emotions and reactions will affect everyone’s enjoyment; good sportsmanship does not end with the cricketers or at the boundary of the field. Sports spectators are important at whatever level of the game; they encourage and cheer on their favourite team or player giving them the morale boost to perform better. Paying attention to spectator etiquette will make the (ICC) CWC qualifiers a memorable experience for everyone especially the visitors. The approved venues in the three cities have sufficient parking for spectators, be considerate enough and take not more than one space. Observe all the traffic signs to avoid parking on the illegal lots. Our first impressions matter always, and yes, the impression we will give to the world during the three-week tournament will determine how we will be perceived by the global community after the event. During the game, clap your hands, stand up, fly your team flag or banners with positive messages to acknowledge a good play, in this case, six runs or four runs hit by a batsman, a wicket collected by a bowler or a catch by a fielder. Every cricketer will tell you how it feels when they hear cheers from the stands-ask King Taibu! Quickly identify your seating position, do not walk around the entire field back and forth, people are there to watch the game and not you. If a short person is sitting behind you, respect them, do not lift a toddler onto your shoulders blocking the view. In return, if someone constantly blocks your view, politely let them know, do not cause a scene and shout or quarrel with them, remember you are watching a gentlemen’s game. Just like at the parking lots, be accommodating, and try not to take more space than needed on crowded stands. The more the merrier, you surely want to take this opportunity and make new friends, network and hear other people’s views about an umpire’s decision. Avoid obscene language; everything you do or say during and after this tournament contributes to the country’s image. Cricket is a good sport to watch with family and no parent wants his/her child to be exposed to foul language. All teams play to win and if ever the players make a mistake, trust the coaches to let them know. The coaches know more about the players as a group than anyone in the stands. I have seen supporters who confuse players in the field of play by giving them disturbing comments. Good manners and good sportsmanship goes beyond the field, be well mannered and practice good spectator sportsmanship. After a long day of exciting action, it is expected to see people exhausted after the last over of the game, but this should not tempt you to push or shove your way to the exit. If your team loses a game, accept the defeat and do not fight with the winning fans or throw bottles onto the field, it’s too late for all that. Nevertheless, this writer cannot wait to hear the “howzit!” and the “LBW” (leg before wicket) chants from players. Good luck to all the teams and a special luck go to the mighty Chevrons! -Justice Simango is a Business Etiquette and Grooming Consultant who writes in his own capacity. He is a member of Toastmasters International. Feedback: justicesimango4@gmail.com Whatsapp: +263717566382