Acting Zimbabwe Power Company (ZPC) managing director Engineer Joshua Chirikutsi receives a certificate from the Standards Association of Zimbabwe (SAZ) director certification services Mr Sebastian Zuze while Bulawayo Thermal power plant manager Engineer Tom Chuma looks on. — Picture by Obey Sibanda Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter THE Bulawayo Thermal Power Station has become the first power plant in the country to have its Integrated Management Systems certified by the Standards Association of Zimbabwe (SAZ). The achievement entails that the thermal power plant has adopted business models and management systems that will enable sustainable growth and effective resource utilisation and deliver value and meet customers’ needs. The Integrated Management Systems (IMS), which the power station received from SAZ and certified by the International Standards Organisation (ISO), are ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015, and the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Specification 18001:2007. In his key note address during the IMS certificates presentation ceremony at the station on Friday, Zimbabwe Power Company (ZPC), chairman Engineer Stanley Kazhanje said: “This occasion is extra special due to the certification of the three Integrated Management Systems that we are witnessing today. “It comes at a time when Zimbabwe is making concerted efforts to generate additional power to meet the needs of its consumers. “Adopting management systems is not just about implementing a system or working towards set standards, it is about embracing change through best practices and instilling it within all of us.” Eng Kazhanje said it was against this background that implementing set standards required visionary leadership, commitment, a motivated workforce and paying particular attention to detail. “I am proud that Bulawayo Thermal Power Station has demonstrated all the above qualities, hence we are gathered here today to celebrate this achievement,” he said. The ZPC boss encouraged workers at Bulawayo Thermal Power plant to continue committing towards the implementation of IMS to achieve efficiency. “Let’s all strive towards achieving and maintaining zero harm to people, environment, property and community through appropriate risk management programmes,” he said. Speaking at the same occasion before presenting the ISO certificates to Bulawayo Thermal Power Station, SAZ director for certification, Mr Sebastian Zuze, on behalf of the African Organisation for Standardisation and ISO, commended the power plant on achieving IMS. “As SAZ whose role is to develop standards, encourage the use of these standards in Zimbabwe to achieve competitiveness of local industries and contributing significantly to the socio-economic development of our nation, we are excited when we witness companies striving for business excellence through standards,” he said. In awarding these certificates to Bulawayo Thermal Power Station, Mr Zuze said his organisation was confirming and testifying that the provision of goods and services by the power station was not left to chance. “But it is a focused and well-thought out and deliberate effort according to international norm. The success of pledge made by His Excellence President Emmerson Mnangagwa to deliver results in 100 days requires a strong foundation in establishing, adopting, implementing and continuously improving relevant standards,” he said. Mr Zuze noted that the fight against corruption requires the implementation of robust systems to educate on the negative repercussions of                         corruption as well as systems to prevent corruption and detecting it to bring into account those involved in the vice. Zesa Holdings group chief executive Engineer Josh Chifamba, ZPC acting managing director Engineer Josh Chirikutsi, among other executives from  the power utility and officials from the National Social Security Authority and the Environmental Management Agency attended the ceremony.  — @okazunga