Dr David Parirenyatwa Richard Muponde, Plumtree Correspondent THE Minister of Health and Child Care, Dr David Parirenyatwa yesterday urged both women and men to go for cervical and prostate cancer screening as many lives have been lost due to delays in seeking treatment. The Minister was addressing villagers and delegates at the official opening of Bango Clinic in Mangwe district. The clinic started operating in 2008 but had not been officially opened. Dr Parirenyatwa’s call comes at a time when the First Lady Cde Auxillia Mnagangwa is on a nation-wide campaign to educate people on the importance of regular screening for cancer in order for individuals to seek early treatment for cancer. “This cancer of the cervix is killing many women. It starts very small at the mouth of the uterus and eventually develops into a big wound, which is difficult to treat and lives are lost as a result. You should also check for breast cancer, it’s also claiming lives,” he said. Dr Parirenyatwa said men should also go for prostate cancer screening. “When you see your urine not going far but dripping so close and you are 40 years and above, please go for prostate cancer tests.” Dr Parirenyatwa also urged youths to delay being involved in sex until they are married as they risk contracting HIV and Aids. “We see girls who are 12 years old coming to clinics to deliver. It’s not good, you should delay indulging in sex until you are married. I am also talking to elders here, please stick to one partner. If you find it difficult to do so then use condoms, they work. They prevent you from contracting HIV and unwanted pregnancies,” said Dr Parirenyatwa. He praised Bango Clinic staff for scooping a number of awards for quality service in the district. “Bango Clinic has been scooping awards and have done so for two consecutive years. Continue the good work. Clinics do a lot of work but this is often not noticed. We appreciate your good work so keep on working hard,” he said. Speaking at the same function, the Minister of State for Matabeleland South Provincial Affairs, Cde Abednico Ncube said the construction of Bango Clinic was testimony of sustainable development which was in line with the policies of the new political dispensation. “I would like to challenge Mangwe District and the province at large to continue making health accessible to all,” said Cde Ncube. @richardmuponde