Tirivashe Nheweyembwa Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League debutants Nichrut from Shurugwi have made history in Zimbabwean football by having five female office bearers in their structures. Promoted through the Central Region Division One ticket, the Premiership outfit, besides having a female co-president have a female administrator. Their medical doctor, physiotherapist and public relations officer are ladies. The co-presidents are Nicholas and Ruth Gara who are husband and wife, hence the name Nichrut. Mazvita Mhlanga is the team administrator, Mercy Mbwende is the medical doctor, Memory Njanike is the team’s  physiotherapist while Deliwe Mhaka holds the media officer portfolio. “It’s not what I thought it would be as at first I thought it will be hard and difficult considering the behaviour of football  people and players but we are lucky in that we work with professionals and they respect and appreciate women input and opinions,” said Mhaka when asked how they have been coping to date in a male-dominated field. Nichrut’s stance to empower women has also caught the attention of the Sports and Recreation Commission with the country’s supreme sports body praising the club and also saying that the position dovetails well with the National Sport and Recreation policy that emphasis on the need for equality in sport. “This is a step in the right direction. What this means is that we are walking the talk. We must be seen to be truly empowering women and the girl child through practical action. To this end,  we are excited that Nichrut have decided to take the bull by the horns by entrusting women to be at the helm of the daily affairs of the club. I must also add that this dovetails well with the National Sport and Recreation Policy which places emphasis on the need for equality in sport. “I would like to therefore challenge the women across the sport and recreation sector to challenge for such positions but they must be women of substance who are able to hold their own,” said the SRC’s communications manager Tirivashe Nheweyembwa. He also challenged the quintet to measure up to expectations and not to expect special favours because of their femininity as that would give those who don’t believe in women empowerment  an opportunity to defend their myopic beliefs. “Gone are the days when we would push equality so that there is some balance, now  we want women who can make a positive difference otherwise if the women are entrusted with key positions and they fail to measure up that will be self defeating and it goes against the national agenda. The onus is on the women. Well done ladies go on and show the world what you are made of,” said Nheweyembwa. The league debutants got off to a winning start last weekend when they beat returnees Mutare City 1-0 at Mandava Stadium and are in action against Chicken Inn at Ascot Stadium on Sunday. — @skhumoyo2000.