Tinashe Tymbah Mukwamuri Langalakhe Mabena Many artistes are in the music profession because they are talented while others just foster to fit in. However, for Bulawayo born afro jazz sensation Tinashe Tymbah Mukwamuri, the fusion of his raw talent and academics makes him a stand-alone artiste who brings a new flavour to the local music fraternity. The 23-year-old lad who is pursuing a degree in Musicology at the Midlands State University is a new kid on the block who is mesmerising Afro Jazz fanatics with colourfully crafted musical pieces, one of them, a love ballad titled Sondela. This is his first single which was released last Tuesday on ZiFM Stereo. With inspiration from the late South African iconic trumpeter, Bra Hugh Masekela, Timba who grew up attending the Salvation Army Church, had a vision to blow the horn hence he joined the church’s brass band at the age of 11, making him the youngest in the troupe. “I started doing music when I was 11. I was inspired by the late Hugh Masekela as I admired him every time he played the trumpet. I then joined the brass band because I wanted to blow the horn,” said Tymbah. The talented jazz maestro who is signed by Harare’s Poga Music under the mentorship of Greg “Poga” Madamombe, revealed that he enrolled for a musicology degree because he had chosen singing as a career. He, however, said he was concerned by the fact that the local arts industry was not growing as fast as what was happening in other African countries. Tymbah blamed this on Zimbabwean artistes he said were not taking art as a business. “I know I am talented, but I believe my ability is not enough hence my decision to do a degree in musicology. “Artistes can live from art if they respect and treat it as a profession. Most South African artistes like the Beatenberg crew studied music that’s why they’re professionals who are touring the world and making a living out of music,” he said. Tymbah said following the good response to his single Sondela, he was working on his second titled Ndivumeleni set to be released in July.