Charlton Siamalonga Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS coach, Madinda Ndlovu, is fully aware that their opponents at Barbourfields Stadium this afternoon, Triangle United, won’t be easy as they will be eager to pick something from the encounter. The Lowveld-based side are not only yet to pick a win in the two games played so far but they are also yet to hit the nets having lost their season opener 1-0 to Shabanie Mine before Ngezi Platinum handed them a 0-2 defeat. On the other hand, Bosso have been on a roll in Bulawayo in all the matches they have played to date while on the league front they have made it two out of two but the legendary Ndlovu, nicknamed Khathazile because of the trouble he used to give opponents during his illustrious playing career for Tshilamoya, knows that Triangle United will just be eager to embarrass them in front of their supporters. “They are a dangerous outfit, the fact that they have not won anything makes them as such so we need to approach them with caution,” said Ndlovu. Bosso are coming from an uninspiring 2-0 away win to league debutants Herentals but it is their ability to chalk up results even when you are not playing well that might give the home team supporters hope that the boys now have some sense of belief in themselves that it’s never over until it’s over. Bosso welcomes back 22-year-old defender Charlton Siamalonga and 19-year-old striker Thabo Lunga who have been out injured. “They are both fully fit and ready to go,” said Ndlovu. Lunga was a subject of some boo boys in the ZNA Charities Shield semi-final clash against Chicken Inn last month, something which prompted the club’s chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube to immediately appeal to the fans to give the youngster a chance as subjecting them to boos might completely derail what the coaches are trying to build. Yesterday Ndlovu said there was need for people to understand that the boys are coming from the Under-18s and it will take them time to adjust to big games. “The supporters will do their part, what they want to do. Can you tell me a team of supporters that has ever played? It never plays so why do they want to influence me when I live with the players and I am from training right now. I know what I am strategising, what I am planning to do and the supporter is there to support and probably justified to talk what he wants because that is his wish but it can’t happen that way. “I don’t read much into what supporters say, this is what I do and if the plan doesn’t work, I switch to plan B,” said Ndlovu. The two sides have met six times since Triangle gained promotion into the big boys’ league with Bosso winning two, drawing three while losing a single encounter in which they were beaten 1-2 at Gibbo Stadium in 2016. Last year Highlanders completed a double over Triangle, winning 2-0 at Emagumeni and 3-1 at Gibbo Stadium. In the other fixture this afternoon, Shabanie Mine entertain Nichrut at Maglas Stadium hoping to continue with their fairytale run so far. Highlanders and Triangle United Head to head 5/7/2015: Highlanders 1,1 Triangle 12/7/15: Triangle 0-0 Highlanders 27/7/16: Highlanders 0-0 Triangle 7/8/16: Triangle 2-1 Highlanders 4/6/17: Highlanders 2-0 Triangle 19/10/17: Triangle 1-3 Highlanders Fixtures Today: Highlanders v Triangle United (Barbourfields),  Shabanie Mine v Nichrut (Maglas)