Sunungurai Bhiza Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter A carnival atmosphere is expected to engulf the city tomorrow when the Glamour Boys, Dynamos, invade Bulawayo for their opening game of the 2018 Castle Lager Premiership match against former champions, Chicken Inn at Barbourfields Stadium. DeMbare fans from Bulawayo and around the country are expected to come in their numbers to rally behind their new look side against an unpredictable Chicken Inn side. An aura of belief among Dynamos fans, who watched their team agonisingly missing out on last season’s championship, that their squad of “unknowns” could drive them to come in their numbers tomorrow. A big crowd is what Chicken Inn are anticipating, with one eye on the possibility of a fat pay cheque from the turnstiles, while the other will be on making a perfect start to the season. However, memories of a 3-0 drubbing by Chicken Inn in the opening match of the 2016 season through a brace by Obidiah Tarumbwa and strike by Tafadzwa Kutinyu are still fresh in the minds of Dynamos’ faithful. Kutinyu is no longer at Chicken Inn, having left for greener pastures in Tanzania, but the core of that squad, including Tarumbwa, which humiliated Dynamos on the opening day of the 2016 season, is still there. “We’re coming in our numbers to cheer our boys. We’ve gone all systems out to lobby our members to come to the stadium on Saturday. As Dynamos Bulawayo Supporters Chapter, we feel honoured to have our team starting in Bulawayo and we have to show our love to the boys. I don’t think what happened in 2016 will happen again; we will win on Saturday,” said Sunungurai Bhiza, patron of the Dynamos Bulawayo Supporters’ Chapter. In their preparations for the 2018 season, Dynamos claimed the scalps of perennial rivals Caps United and Highlanders on their way to lifting the ZNA Charity Shield. It is this build-up that gives them hope they can launch a strong title challenge. The Harare giants have added James Marufu from Ngezi Platinum Stars, ex-ZPC Kariba attacker Raphael Manuvire, former How Mine defensive midfielder Marvelous Mukumba and experienced defender Jimmy Tigere from Harare City in a bid to strengthen their team and challenge for the title. Among key players to lead them in their search for a perfect start against Chicken Inn are defenders Marshal Machazane and Ocean Mushure, as well as diminutive winger Cleopas Kapupurika. Just like Dynamos, Chicken Inn are gearing up for a perfect start. Chicken Inn coach, Joey Antipas, who orchestrated Dynamos’ downfall and denied them a fifth consecutive title in 2015, is not reading much into history. “First games are always tricky and we have to be mentally stable, be tactically disciplined if we are to get a positive result. History won’t matter much because this is a new season, with new players, but what we want is to go out and play with confidence and have a perfect start,” Antipas said. Veterans Clemence Matawu, Moses Jackson, Passmore Bernard and Tarumbwa as well as new signing Simon Munawa are expected to lead Chicken Inn. Meanwhile, Chicken Inn will not raise gate charges for the high profile game. “Being the first game of the season, it will be unfair to football lovers to hike gate charges. We are sticking to the usual charges of $3 for the rest of the ground, $5 for the VIP wings and $10 for the VIP. We want people to come and see how their teams look like and enjoy football,” said Tawengwa Hara, Chicken Inn’s secretary-general. Fixtures Tomorrow: Bulawayo City v Chapungu (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum v Herentals (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v FC Platinum (National Sports Stadium), Nichrut v Mutare City (Mandava), Yadah FC v Bulawayo Chiefs (Rufaro), Chicken Inn v Dynamos (Barbourfields) Sunday: Highlanders v Black Rhinos (Barbourfields), Shabanie Mine v Triangle United (Mandava), Caps United v Harare City (National Sports Stadium). — @ZililoR.