Dr David Parirenyatwa Doctors at Mpilo Central Hospital in Bulawayo went on strike on Thursday protesting against what they said were delays in addressing their grievances. The industrial action is said to be national although doctors at hospitals such as United Bulawayo Hospitals have not joined the strike. The doctors before going on strike, handed a letter to the hospital’s clinical director Dr Solwayo Ngwenya addressed to Health and Child Care Minister, Dr David Parirenyatwa. The doctors said there was lack of urgency in addressing their issues hence their decision to down tools. The strike comes two days after lecturers at the National University of Science and Technology who were also on strike, resumed work. The lecturers went on strike to protest against what they described as mismanagement of resources by the university authorities. The doctors said among their grievances was that Government hospitals were operating without essential drugs and fluids resulting in unnecessary deaths. They also said their allowances had not been paid since last October and they were also understaffed. On Wednesday Dr Parirenyatwa warned doctors against going on strike saying such action was tantamount to sabotaging the Government which was doing all within its power to revive the economy. Dr Parirenyatwa said Government was aware of the doctors’ grievances and was doing its best to address them. “I am aware that there are ongoing discussions about conditions of service under our new dispensation. I think this is a time when we should be together because anybody who contemplates a strike at this particular time when we are trying to invite investors, will be sabotaging the system,” said Dr Parirenyatwa. Government has since agreed to lift the freeze on the recruitment of doctors and has availed $10 million to buy vehicles for doctors. We therefore do not understand the rationale for doctors to go on strike when their grievances are already being addressed. The doctors have complained of understaffing and Government has responded by lifting the freeze on the recruitment of doctors. They have asked to be assisted to buy vehicles and Government has availed $10 million for that purpose. What is disturbing is that the doctors and Nust lecturers who have resorted to strikes as opposed to engaging authorities are supposed to have an appreciation of the economic challenges facing the country given their level of education. These are men and women of very high level of education who should be well informed of the prevailing economic situation. Doctors and university lecturers should know better the capacity of our economy when it comes to expenditure. Government is staggering the payment of civil servants’ salaries because of cash flow challenges, a fact that an individual of little education should appreciate. The same doctors and lecturers who pretend Government has the required resources to address all their grievances at once, are yet to be paid their 2017 bonuses. Is this not a confirmation of the Government‘s limited capacity as a result of poor performance of the economy? The reality on the ground is that while there are positive economic developments, it will take some time to turnaround the economy and we expect the people, especially those of high level of education, to understand this simple reality. We are persuaded to agree with Dr Parirenyatwa that individuals who continue to make unrealistic demands are infact after sabotaging the system. We want at this junctures to implore Zimbabweans to be patient as Government and the private sector work together to turnaround the economy. The changes, it has to be appreciated, will be gradual as the economy improves. The new Government has said its thrust is to address the bread and butter issues as opposed to politicking and we must give it time.