 Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWEAN netball will never be the same again with the coming on board of Glow Petroleum who made an undertaking to pour $250 000 into the sport in what will be one of the largest sponsorships in Africa. The company also made an undertaking to increase the package to $500 000 in the near future if they get value for their brand. Speaking during a pre-season tournament held at White City netball courts on Saturday, Glow Petroleum managing director Aaron Chinhara said gone are the days when netball was viewed as a social sport with the players not getting anything for their sweat. “We have decided to sponsor netball instead of any other sports because we realised that every other company that wants to sponsor sport they always think of the other hugely followed disciplines like football, rugby and cricket but they don’t think about this traditional and girl child sport, netball. “In order for netball not to die we need to incentivise the girl child and we promise to be with you throughout. We have therefore decided to pour $250 000 as a start but hereby make an undertaking that we will add another additional $250 000 in the not so distant future to this Rainbow Netball League. “You have started very well and have motivated us to put more, the ancient times have gone for the netball players to play for mahala. We are also prepared to take you outside the country to meet the other African Leagues and  see how they do their business,” said Chinhara to wild applause from the teams. The tournament saw 21 teams from across the country taking part in the tournament for the $1 000 first prize money which was won by Midlands side, Platinum Queens, who sweated against fellow  Midlanders  Glow Petroleum to eventually win 21-19 in a nail biting final that had spectators on their toes for the entire duration of the encounter. Speaking at the same occasion, chairperson of the newly formed league, the Rainbow Amateur Netball League that organised the tournament, Melody Garikai said their resolve was to take netball to greater heights. “We want to help take netball to greater heights and want to reach all corners of Zimbabwe because we want the girl child to be empowered. It’s our wish and resolve to see the girl child to be remunerated for her sweat and we don’t want to play for nothing. If you have got the talent just know that our motto is the star is the limit,” she said. The one day event was graced by officials from the Sports and Recreation Commission led by the provincial coordinator, Sam Dzvimbu, deputy director (southern region) in the Ministry of Youths, Sport, Arts and Recreation, Isaiah Mpofu. Dzvimbu said the tournament dovetailed well with the Government’s community sports policy which aims at taking sport to every corner of the country. @skhumoyo2000