Winky D and Vabati VaJehovah Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent THE wait is over and Winky D has delivered an under par music video for his collaboration Ngirozi with Vabati VaJehova. Arguably the best song on his latest album Gombwe, Ngirozi touched both the young and old with its message of faith in divine intervention for the troubles bedevilling many in Zimbabwe. The images that Winky D painted in people’s minds with the song were unfortunately not translated into the music video that was released on Monday afternoon. The music video, that has been viewed over 40 000 times on YouTube, was directed by Enqore through his Nafuna Tv. The word ngirozi means angel and angels according to Christian religion act as an intermediary between people and God. The song itself is a prayer for an angel to come down and go back to God with a message that He should pour out His mercy and help end people’s problems. As such, people expected the music video’s storyline to resemble the lyrics in the song. However, the talking point in the music video is the cameo appearance of stand-up comedian Gonyeti (Samantha Kureya) who travels to a shrine to get prayed for by Vabati VaJehova, drone footage of a mountainous location and Winky D standing on top of a mountain. Instead of praise from fans, most comments were mocking Winky D for again failing to deliver with a music video just like he did with hit track Disappear. Just like the insufficiencies that bedevilled Disappear where there was no clear cut storyline, the same can be said of Ngirozi. Criticising the video, some suggested that Winky D should not have featured Gonyeti as her presence made the video seem like a joke as most associate her with comedy whereas the song tackles a serious matter. Some said this video was posted by mistake as the real one was yet to be released. “This video is rubbish. It’s not what we expected for a song of this calibre. I’m very disappointed. The director should be banned?” wrote Admire Maramba. Others said when they watched the music video, they were astounded like the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Mines and Energy when they visited Sir Wicknell’s $5 million solar project in Gwanda where they found blair toilets as the only structure. “Hanzi video yaWinky D yakafanana naWicknell and the Gwanda blair toilets project. Amana ka! (They say Winky D’s music video is the same as Wicknell and the Gwanda blair toilets project),” posted one Thomas Masiya. The music video failed to capture the essence of the song, which is a desperate prayer by someone for divine intervention. There is no depiction of the quandary that someone is in because of the difficulties they are facing in Zimbabwe, or even how parents, who have been left by their children for greener pastures, are longing to see them again. All in all, Winky D could have done better with the music video. However, some sided with the Gafa, who now prefers to be called the Gombwe, saying the video was a masterpiece which most were not appreciating as they are comparing his productions with Jah Prayzah’s. “This is actually a nice video. Well done, it links with the meaning of the song. Winky D has a different style in making his videos, people should stop comparing him with Jah Prayzah and Freeman,” commented Elijah Ziumbwa. “To all those who’re complaining about the video, you really don’t understand the context of this song. This is about Zimbabweans who are all over the world searching for better living standards. Not every music video is about cars, models and fancy places. “Well done Winky and thank you for reminding us that Zimbabwe is home no matter how hard things may be in a foreign land,” commented Given Gwede. Another, Privie Mcspice, wrote that people needed to understand that Winky D was not the best at the production of music videos though he remains one of the best artistes in the country who will always electrify them with brilliant inspirational music.