Calum McLeod Mehluli Sibanda, Senior Sports Reporter Scotland 322-6 (Cross 114, MacLeod 78, Mustafa 4/56) beat UAE 249 (Usman 80, Raza 50, Sole 4/68) by 73 runs SCOTLAND shot to the top of the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier Super Six table beating United Arab Emirates by 73 runs at Queens Sports Club yesterday. Man of the match and opening batsman Matthew Cross top scored with 114 runs, followed by Calum MacLeod, who made 78 as Scotland posted 322 in 50 overs after winning the toss and electing to bat. UAE made a bright start with the bat, but from 62 for one, they crumbled to 93 for five. A 105-run partnership between Muhammad Usman and Ahmed Raza kept them interested. Pace bowler Tom Sole broke the stand when Usman attempted a reverse sweep to be taken by Mark Watt to depart for 80. Raza followed for 50, trapped lbw by Brad Wheal. It was all over when seamer Safyaan Sharif had Mohammad Naveed taken in the deep. With Afghanistan beating West Indies by three wickets at Harare Sports Club yesterday, Scotland moved to the top of the log with five points, while the Windies are second with four. Zimbabwe, who take on Ireland in their first Super Six match at Harare Sports Club today, are third on the log with three points. Cross still remained humble with focus firmly on their last two matches in Harare against Ireland and West Indies. If they win, they will be headed to the World Cup. “It doesn’t change a lot, we still have to go to Harare and beat Ireland and probably beat West Indies. If we win two we go through. Today was all about winning and that’s all we’ve done. We go to Harare full of confidence and still unbeaten,” said Cross. Scotland remain the only team, together with host nation Zimbabwe, yet to taste defeat in the Qualifier. Cross reckoned they need to continue with their fine form in the last two matches to ensure that they qualify. “We have always believed we are a team capable of punching above our weight. So far we have played well in every game; we bowled five teams out, we are doing everything right at the moment, we just need to continue for two more games and hopefully we will be there,” he said. Scotland take on Ireland in a televised game at Harare Sports Club on Sunday before they round off the Super Six stage against West Indies on Thursday at the same venue.— @Mdawini_29