Inspector Simango Precious Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter A 19-YEAR-OLD domestic worker from Bulawayo beat up two knife-wielding men and sent them fleeing after they broke into a house and tried to rape her and her employer’s daughters aged seven and 14 years. Police tracked down the would-be rapists less than an hour after they “escaped” from the house, with the pint sized maid in pursuit. Sniffer dogs followed a trail of blood left by one of the assailants who was stabbed by the “super maid” after she disarmed him. The incident which has set Trenance suburb abuzz occurred on Thursday last week between 9 and 10 PM. The maid, who asked not to be named or photographed, told The Chronicle she became aware there were intruders trying to break into the house as she knelt down for her evening prayers. She said within minutes, two men armed with knives had entered the house. “They rounded us up into one room. One of them stood at the door while the other ordered me and my employer’s children to undress and lie on the bed,” said the domestic worker who still appeared shaken. She said the children undressed out of fear but she stood her ground. “One of the men ordered the children to twerk while lying on the bed. He stripped and watched them while playing with his manhood until he ejaculated,” she said. The men, said the domestic worker, threatened to slit her throat and announced they would rape all of them. “The naked one who was masturbating got distracted as he watched his friend who was threatening me and I grabbed his knife,” said the domestic worker. “In the scuffle, I held the handle and he grabbed the blade, which cut his palm. He started biting me and I kept stabbing his hands. He bit into my neck and I bit his thumb until he screamed, begging me to let go,” she said. The woman said when she finally broke free and faced the two men, they took to their heels. “When police finally came, there was semen and blood all over the house. Our landlord who was away when the these knife wielding men pounced, fired some shots to ensure the rogues did not return when we told him what had happened,” she said. The police dog section, she said, had the easiest of tasks to track down assailants who were hiding in a nearby bush. Finishing her narrative between sobs, the maid said the experience taught her never to go to bed without praying. “If I had not prayed that night, I might not have seen the men until it was too late. I feel violated because it was my first time to see a naked grown up man,” she said. The heroic maid’s employer said she had gone away on business when the incident occurred. “This helper that I have is a Godsend. She put her own life on the line, fighting thugs just to save my children from rape and who knows what else,” she said. The woman said her children had been having nightmares since the attack and throw up after eating. A neighbour, Mr Amon Sibanda, heaped praises on the domestic worker. “I am impressed and at a loss for words at this girl’s selfless actions. We are always hearing stories of horror maids abusing children or conniving with criminals but she has restored my faith in domestic helpers. She did what some parents would not have been able to do and she deserves a medal,” said Mr Sibanda. Bulawayo police spokesperson Inspector Precious Simango confirmed the incident but could not give further details as the case has been handed over to the courts. “I cannot comment on the matter because it is now before the courts,” said Inspector Simango. — @andile_tshuma.