Dr Gerald Gwinji Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE Ministry of Health and Child Care has assured Zimbabweans that they are safe from listeriosis as appropriate measures have been put in place at the Beitbridge Border Post to avoid importation of processed foods into the country. The Government banned importation of food stuffs linked to the deadly listeriosis in South Africa following reports that processed ready-to-eat meats including polony and sausages had been identified as the source of the outbreak. Listeriosis is a rare food-borne disease found in 10 cases per one million people and was first reported in South Africa early this year. According to online sources, a food processing plant in Polokwane‚ Limpopo‚ was confirmed to be the source of listeria‚ which has caused the world’s biggest documented listeriosis outbreak‚ with 948 confirmed cases and 180 deaths. Ministry of Health and Child Care Permanent Secretary, Major General (Retired) Dr Gerald Gwinji yesterday said the ministry was working with officials at the border post to make sure processed foods are not brought into the country. “The challenge is only on our southern borders, particularly Beitbridge. It’s not spread throughout the borders because this is a food poisoning issue which occurred in one area in South Africa. The source has been determined as one specific manufacturing food processing plant. We have therefore concentrated on Beitbridge Border Post and we’ve put up the necessary measures with the health ministry and the veterinary department to carry out the necessary searches and confiscate any foods or materials that are suspicious,” said Dr Gwinji. He said the ministry is also educating the public so that the people are aware of what is happening with regards to the outbreak. “The risk of having contaminated food coming into the country has actually reduced considering that the manufacturer of the suspected cold meats that are found to be contaminated has been closed. “However, we continue to be alert. Members of the public are worried about us banning cold meats in local shops but I can assure you that cold meats sold in most of our shops are manufactured locally by entities like Colcom. We don’t have a challenge as far as the health of Zimbabweans is concerned,” said Dr Gwinji. He said other neighbouring countries such as Mozambique were more dependent on cold meats from South Africa. “For countries like Mozambique it’s a challenge than it is for us. The measures we have put in place are adequate to address the challenge, detect any outbreak that might be related to cold meats but most importantly prevent it from coming in by having the border surveillance. “We’ll continue communicating with the authorities in South Africa so that as soon as they are on top of the situation and are assured that the coast is clear in terms of contamination, then we can also relax the conditions that we have put in place at the border,” said Dr Gwinji. He added that listeriosis was not like Ebola or cholera where an individual is infected and walks across the border risking the lives of other people. “This is a food poisoning issue where the risk is reduced once the appropriate measures have been put in place. “The action that South Africa has taken has actually drastically reduced the risk of another outbreak in the country or anywhere else,” said Dr Gwinji. @pamelashumba1