Shinsoman Mthabisi Tshuma, Showbiz Reporter IT was a night of enchanting sounds and performances by Shinsoman as he created a revelry spirit at his debut show at Yellow Door Bar in Gwanda on Saturday. Shinsoman, real name Romeo Anthony, had the crowd grooving to his songs for up to three hours at a gig that was organised by South Africa-based businessman Mr Lajane and DJ Kudamaster. For multitudes of fans, this was the “show of the month” as they had been starved of quality entertainment. From his last show in Gwanda years back which was marred with violence and had to be called off, this time around, everything went on smoothly as revellers partied peacefully. All in a party mood, revellers packed the club and danced until the wee hours of Sunday morning. There was a heavy presence of patrons who had come from nearby Colleen Bawn, Mbalabala and Beitbridge. Before he went on stage, supporting acts of the talented duo GDA fire, Bry, Ganja farmer, famous twins dance group and supporting DJs Kudamaster and Nicksoul hyped up the crowd. The line-up provided a mixed bag although it was largely a dancehall affair.. At around 11:30PM, Shinsoman and his DJ took to the stage dressed in a controversial marijuana suit and tie. In no time, the club was rocking and security details had a difficult time controlling the crowd that wanted to greet the Dancehall father. Shinso took revellers down memory lane as he performed his hit song Mama Devante which was warmly welcomed and performed over seven times. His songs Giroriya, Mombe dzepatown, Ndasangana Nezvidhakwa and Survivor were some of the favourites that he performed. Yellow Door Bar owner Mr Lajane said: “The show was a success. I’m happy that many people came to support local artistes. This is just the beginning of great things to come as I’ll be bringing South African house artistes this coming holiday.” Shinsoman said he was happy to perform before a full house saying this was testimony that local music was growing. @mthabisi_mthire