President Emmerson Mnangagwa Tendai Mugabe, Harare Bureau PRESIDENT Mnangagwa says Government is putting in place measures to ensure that the country conducts free, fair and credible elections due in the next few months. Addressing captains of industry in Harare on Thursday, President Mnangagwa implored politicians to campaign for political office peacefully. “We also have a stable political environment despite the fact that we are a few months away from harmonised elections,” he said. “My administration will continue to urge politicians and the electorate to campaign for political office peacefully and compete for positions in a manner that demonstrates political maturity, diversity and tolerance. “Government says no to politically motivated violence and measures have been put in place to ensure holding of free, fair and credible elections.” President Mnangagwa said he would remain as a listening President and he was always ready to engage in dialogue for the good of the nation. He said if people worked together, Zimbabwe would achieve a middle class economy by 2030. “The onus is upon us to determine our own destiny,” he said. “I urge all of us to uphold good work ethics, be principled and disciplined in our daily work as we rebuild our country. The future of our children and economy lies in our hands and this country bears a huge growth potential for sustainable development.” To accelerate economic development, President Mnangagwa said Government was working a one-stop shop investment centre to ease the doing of business. Said President Mnangagwa: “Government is seized with the operationalisation of the One-Stop Investment Centre where relevant Government agencies are housed under one roof, coordinated and streamlined, to provide efficient and transparent services to potential investors. “The centre will be strategically located and will aim at shortening and simplifying administrative procedures for the issuance of business approvals, permits and licences and company incorporation. This removes unnecessary bottlenecks, delays and red tape currently faced by investors.” He said the initiative was in line with Government’s rapid results approach aimed at easing the doing business in the country. President Mnangagwa continued: “Our private sector should be at the forefront in building this Zimbabwe which we can all be proud of. As custodians of the means of production and leaders in the private sector, I exhort you to continue to be resilient, to be buoyant and strive to resuscitate companies, maintain ailing ones and establish new ones. “The time of conferencing, meetings after meetings has lapsed. It’s time for action and to deliver. This requires diligence, foregoing of short-term benefits for long term benefits.”