Tavengwa Mukuhlani Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Cricket chairman, Tavengwa Mukuhlani, has called on the nation not to lose hope in the wake of the Chevrons’ disappointing failure to make it into the International Cricket Council World Cup finals in England and Wales. The ZC boss, however, expressed confidence that the boys will be able to pick up the pieces and make right what went wrong, adding that the wins and the losses were all for the Zimbabweans as the qualifiers, that ran from March 4-10 were a rollercoaster ride especially for the cricket leadership and indeed the players. “I wish to put it on record that Zimbabwe Cricket is disappointed and feels the pain of the fans and the entire nation following our national team’s failure to qualify for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2019 in England and Wales. “The boys are gutted and they know their performance, especially against the United Arab Emirates in the match that sealed our fate, was not good enough to take us through. I am, however, confident they will pick up the pieces, continue working harder and try to make it right. When we win, we win together. When we lose, we must lose together. “So, with the nation’s steadfast support, through thick and thin, we will recover from this setback and achieve better results in the future,” said Mukuhlani in a statement. He, however, said the nation had every reason to stand tall for the successful hosting of the qualifiers even though the race ended in humiliation and pain for the hosts. “On behalf of Zimbabwe Cricket, I wish to express our sincerest gratitude to the thousands of Zimbabweans, young and old, for warmly embracing the game of cricket and making the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier 2018 a truly memorable experience. “The month-long tournament has sparked nationwide interest in the sport and has been a catalyst for new and improved facilities to support the development of the game of cricket at all levels throughout Zimbabwe. “I am looking forward to an exciting future for the game in our country. I am also extremely proud of the strong and positive impact of the tournament on Zimbabwe, with the event driving millions of dollars into our economy. Thanks to the event, we have also seen increased cooperation and goodwill between the various stakeholders — Zimbabwe Cricket, the Government and host cities, commercial partners, the media and the community at large. We are indebted,” he said. The ZC supremo also paid tribute to the ICC for their faith in the country in handing the hosting privilege which helped market the nation as a safe destination while promoting sports tourism. “I wish to express our deepest gratitude to the International Cricket Council for not only showing faith in our ability to host an event of this magnitude and global significance but for also providing us with all the necessary support to ensure we deliver a world-class tournament. The Local Organising Committee and volunteers were key to the success of this tournament. Congratulations for a job well done and thank you for your dedication and tremendous efforts,” said Mukuhlani.