President Mnangagwa Leonard Ncube/ Pamela Shumba, Chronicle Reporters PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa is expected to tour Gwayi-Shangani Dam and the Bulawayo-Nkayi Road in Matabeleland North on Friday as his administration renews hope for completion of the projects in the province. The Zanu-PF National Political Commissar, Lieutenant General Engelbert Rugeje (Retired), yesterday called on the party’s leadership in Matabeleland region to prepare for the President’s visit. He was addressing the Matabeleland regional leadership during a commissariat workshop held in Bulawayo yesterday. “President Mnangagwa is touring provinces. He was in Mashonaland Central last month and the visit was a huge success. He will on Friday be in Matabeleland North province and we’re busy preparing for the visit. “I would like to encourage the leadership from neighbouring provinces, particularly Members of Parliament, the Senate, Politburo and Central Committee to be there in Matabeleland North to support the party’s programmes,” said Lt Gen Rugeje (Rtd). He said the Presidential visits would continue, with the next one scheduled for Manicaland followed by Matabeleland South province. “We’ll advise party members of the next visits as we get closer to the dates,” he said. The Zanu-PF Matabeleland North provincial chairperson, Cde Richard Moyo, said the President’s visit brings hope to the province for completion of two capital projects. “The President will visit the province on Friday to tour Gwayi-Shangani Dam and the Bulawayo-Nkayi Road,” said Cde Moyo. He said President Mnangagwa, who is also expected to officiate at a CEOs Roundtable in Victoria Falls tomorrow, will start his tour at the Gwayi-Shangani Dam site in Hwange district in the morning before proceeding to Bubi for the Bulawayo-Nkayi Road tour. Cde Moyo said people would gather at Nechilibi Secondary School in Cross Mabale near the Gwayi-Shangani Dam site and Ingwingwisi Bridge along the Bulawayo-Nkayi Road for the two rallies. He said those from Binga, Hwange and Lupane are expected to attend the Cross Mabale rally while those from Bubi, Nkayi, Tsholotsho and Umguza should go to Ingwingwisi.  “I would like to invite everyone who is able to travel especially from Matabeleland North as well as those from our neighbouring provinces such as Bulawayo and Matabeleland South to come in their numbers,” said Cde Moyo. “This visit is important to us as a province because these projects are long overdue hence we feel honoured and hopeful that they will be completed.” This will be the President’s first ever visit to the province on Government business as Head of State, as his administration pushes to complete outstanding projects. The provincial leadership was tasked to identify outstanding projects that needed urgent attention and Gwayi-Shangani and the Bulawayo-Nkayi road are some of the mentioned projects. @ncubeleon @pamelashumba1