 Rudo Grace Gwata-Charamba, Correspondent YOURS truly sincerely appreciates the very many comments, on past instalments, received from around the globe. In the spirit of learning with maximum stakeholder communication and collaboration in line with the principles of Results Based Management (RBM) and the 100-day approach, this instalment is informed by those comments. One of the most shared concerns, not without sufficient reasoning, was why a short term 100-day initiative would be selected, as is the case in Zimbabwe, to address challenges of a very long term nature.  As intimated in earlier instalments, the 100-day approach is a proven tool for facilitating the delivery of results through learning, reviewing and adjusting of the results framework, driving sustainable organisational change, developing leaders and change agents. It encourages collaborative leadership, learning-by-doing, developing capacity in real time and adapting in response to evolving needs throughout the implementation of related project. The initiative possesses a real-time “demonstration effect” that builds confidence, among stakeholders, to address more complex goals in ensuing projects towards the achievement of the long term goals. That is, it can generate credibility regarding the capacity to make progress towards real change and improvement previously perceived to be impossible to achieve. Also, the implementation of socioeconomic development and reform projects is significantly influenced by various factors within a complex environment and often do not conform to documents written at the beginning of the initiative. Facilitating progress and ultimate success in implementing these projects calls for continuous course correction and adaptive implementation processes. The short-term nature of 100-day projects allows for such timely correction as well as response and adaption to changing stakeholder situations and priorities.  These characteristics and the related benefits discussed below make the approach most suitable for the much needed swift turnaround of an under-performing economy within a highly stressful socio-economic environment. The approach entails breaking down large, long term-projects), that may appear enormous and overwhelming to implement, into smaller projects to achieve mini-versions of the large project’s end results in 100 days or less. The process starts by unpacking initial activities detailed in the project design to make them operational, fostering a sense of ownership amongst implementers, clarifying roles and responsibilities towards reaching objectives, and assessing capacity requirements. Team-building, a major component of the implementation process, adds significant value as it brings together the right people to achieve the goals and orienting individual team members of their role and contribution to the overarching development goal. To enhance effectiveness of the team, the leader is selected on the basis of capacity to influence positively and improve service delivery, regardless of hierarchy, job title or grade. Literature shows that implementing 100-day projects provides teams with an opportunity to think fast and solve problems arising using available resources and thus promoting innovation and efficiency. That is, challenges provide opportunities for stakeholders to think on how to do thing better as is the case when. A typical example relates to delay in the release of project funds, often regarded as a major challenge in most organisations, this can be addressed through focusing on activities that do not immediately require funds. Such activities include the listing of candidates for recruitment as well as the design of guidelines and training materials. When the funds are eventually received, teams can make up for the lost time through enhanced effort, including working extra time or finding innovative ways to speed up progress. Local challenges are, therefore, overcome with local solutions mostly through dedication and commitment, particularly from senior personnel and implementers. Implementing the 100-day initiative also helps both individuals and teams to overcome inertia and the uncertainty around whether or not the required change is possible. They also gain confidence that enables them to effectively contribute to the achievement of broad long-term goals. Additionally, the related project processes help to capacitate teams to solve more significant problems in ensuing project cycles and also enhance levels of awareness regarding the human capacity available. According to literature, intermediate and final reviews conducted on 100-day projects bring with them immense benefits that facilitate the achievement of long-term development goals. During the reviews, teams and their leaders are assembled to share information on successes, lessons learnt and the potential of their projects. These joint reviews create a cooperative environment that allows open and regular dialogue among stakeholders regarding what may be realistically achieved on time,  what may be achievable with an extension of timeframe and what is unlikely to be achieved with the last two are issues often discouraged except when absolutely necessary. The lessons drawn are used to make the necessary adjustments for improving efficiency, effectiveness, flexibility and responsiveness in the subsequent processes for the same project, or to a broader level and applicable in different project contexts.  Furthermore, the teams reflect on how the work of each team relates to that of other teams involved and also how it fits into efforts to achieve the ultimate long term-goal. Such processes have proved to be effective in enhancing collaboration, levels of communication and trust, among stakeholders, in several nations notably Rwanda, Kenya and Sierra Leone. In addition, the processes enhance common understanding of how the work and efforts of teams are intertwined and mutually supportive for achieving overall project goals. Several strategies that include consistently focusing on both intermediate and final results, promoting buy-in and fostering ownership can be employed to enhance the efficacy of 100-day initiatives. Literature shows that documenting and extensively sharing information on success can help to promote buy-in, among stakeholders, which leads to effective implementation of projects. Also, paying attention to intermediate results, which act as building blocks towards fulfillment of higher-level results, helps to ensure the quality of the final results. Such level of attention also helps to track progress and provide warning well in advance that deliverables may not be on track as planned, where applicable. One of the most effective strategies to enhance the effectiveness of implementing the projects  is to allow space, time and support for implementers to fully grasp the details and indicators of the project that they are expected to implement. This helps them to understand their role and contribution to the achievement of the greater goal which also fosters a sense of ownership among them. In the process, the implementers are motivated as they get to appreciate their contribution to the achievement of the overall project objectives. The efficacy of 100-day initiatives, to a large extent, depends on the availability of strong leadership, ability of an organisation to develop the capacity of stakeholders in real-time, promote maximum buy-in and foster a sense of ownership. Another prerequisite is the development of sound systems to capture and integrate learning for adjustment and future planning and adjustment. However, these necessary capacities can only be developed when all stakeholders appreciate that results from the related projects are not a destination but a demonstration of progress towards the achievement of long term project goals. Furthermore, the achievement of desired results can be sustained when the engagement and collaboration between teams, short feedback loops and systems for review and learning from experiences are institutionalised. Dr. Rudo Grace Gwata-Charamba is a Project/ Programme Management Consultant and Researcher with a special interest in Results Based Management (RBM). She can be contacted via email: rgcharamba@gmail.com