Philip Chiyangwa Takudzwa Chitsiga, Harare Bureau ZRP Morris have written to Zifa president Philip Chiyangwa querying their expulsion from the Northern Region Division One League ahead of the 2018 season which begins this weekend. Morris were expelled from the region for not paying their affiliation fees on time. However, the police outfit have cried foul citing that some clubs like Chegutu Pirates only paid their affiliation fees this week. The letter was also addressed to the association’s chief executive, Joseph Mamutsemi and they cited lack of fairness by the league leadership. The police outfit were notified of their dismissal on March 26 yet they claim they responded on March 23 when they paid their affiliation fees. ZRP Morris secretary-general, Dickson Matare, said they will engage the highest Zifa office to have their case resolved. “We have been trying to engage these guys for some time after they released fixtures where we are not involved and it looks like they have already made up their minds by leaving us out of the fixtures. “We have been loyal to the region for the past five years when we joined back in 2013 but we don’t understand why they are doing this to us. “We paid the money on Friday, the same day their letter of dismissal came, and they had already released the fixtures.” For the team it was business as usual yesterday and they believe they will not rest until their case is put to rest. “We hope the league will not commence before the issue is solved,’’ the letter said. “We appeal to your high office to stop the commencement of the league as we were not called for a hearing. “There are some things which are not clear as the letter of dismissal does not have a stamp or signature from Robert Mamvura who was supposed to have signed.’’ Eighteen teams have been confirmed and close sources confirmed the sacking of ZRP Morris and the coming on board of Harare based Al Buraak. “Morris were given enough time to affiliate by the Region but they could not do that as they did not have a sponsor and they were omitted,’’ sources said. “The team was given enough time after the annual meeting and were reminded when the days lapsed but they took no action which left the executive without an option but to leave them. “I don’t think the region will give them another chance.’’ The fixtures will have five new teams in Chinhoyi Stars, PAM, Alburaak, Herentals U-20, DZ Evangel and Beta X1.