Nomthandazo Eunice Moyo Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent FORMER Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Mrs Eunice Nomthandazo Moyo, who was expelled from Zanu-PF last year, has distanced herself from the G40-linked political outfit, the National Patriotic Front. Mrs Moyo joins several Zanu-PF members and ex-officials who have disassociated themselves from the Retired Brigadier General Ambrose Mutinhiri-led NPF which is said to enjoy the backing of former President Mr Robert Mugabe. In an interview in the city yesterday, Mrs Moyo said she was not part of any political formation. “What has that (NPF) got to do with me? It’s got nothing to do with me. I’ve nothing to do with people who create parties. I realised that the other day you guys (media) put my name in there without talking to me,” she said. Mrs Moyo said she was still assessing the country’s political situation before making her next move. “Politics is my choice. If I want to continue with politics, I will although I haven’t made a decision. I’m still observing the situation. I believe that my silence has nothing to do with my decision to join another political party. No,” she said. Mrs Moyo however, did not rule out joining another political party. “After seeing that what is happening is not correct, an individual finds like-minded people and works with them to fix what is wrong. That is why I joined the struggle. I didn’t join the struggle by being force-marched to Zambia. I went there by myself and I was mature then.” Last week, former Zanu-PF Youth League Secretary for Youth Affairs Mr Kudzanai Chipanga revealed that he had turned away Rtd-Brig Mutinhiri’s emissaries sent to recruit him to join the party. Other individuals who have distanced themselves from the alleged G40 project include former Cabinet Ministers Mr Makhosini Hlongwane and Dr Walter Mzembi.Others are former Zanu-PF officials Mr Jeppy Jaboon, Mr Shadreck Mashayamombe and legislators, Mr Simbaneuta Mudarikwa and Mr Edgar Mbwembwe. @nqotshili