 Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter IN an effort to highlight the plight of marginalised schools and children in Zimbabwe, a non-governmental organisation, ZiMwana Worldwide, will tomorrow hold a one day inaugural street athletics event in Caledonia, Harare. According to ZiMwana Worldwide trust’s programmes director Lovemore Hama, the event is being used to bring the plight of the children to the policymakers with the sole objective that their situation will then be improved. “These children play in the streets and when they go to their schools they find the same situation so we thought of having a competition under the same conditions that they play in so that maybe the policymakers will see the need to build proper infrastructure,” said Hama. It’s the second such competition in Africa and will bring together 300 athletes from six schools from Harare province that are marginalised and don’t have sporting grounds but Hama said his organisation will convert the dusty streets around the school into athletics track. “Children will come together to enjoy themselves, showcase their talents and bring to light the need for proper educational and sporting infrastructure in marginalised communities. “An estimated 2 000 people are expected to watch the competitions. The event will also highlight that beyond winning medals in competitions sport is a powerful tool which can be used to rally communities on a certain cause which is advancing the rights of the children to play sport. “We are also answering the call of our Constitution section 32 which states that, ‘the State should take all practical measures to ensure that people have access to sport and recreational activities.’ “However we reckon the State cannot deliver on its own and we are here to complement the Government,” said Hama. He called on the various members of the business community to lend a hand in whatever way that they may deem necessary for the direct welfare of the athletes, so that dreams and aspirations of the young girl and boy may be realised. “As ZiMwana Worldwide we believe it is a right for every child to have education no matter the circumstances. “Sport can drive investment into education, hence this athletics competition which we hope can raise awareness to the need for Government schools in Caledonia, bring quality education to the 500 students at Shining Star, who learn under very difficult conditions,” Hama said. He said they will in the near future spread their wings to other areas in Zimbabwe as he paid tribute to the Ministry of Sport, Arts and Recreation for supporting the cause. “Let us all lend a hand to the young people by helping make the sports festival a resounding success that will change the face of our communities,” said Hama. @skhumoyo2000