Sean Williams Mehluli Sibanda,  Senior Sports Reporter LEFT handed all-rounder Sean Williams is likely to be picked to play for Zimbabwe in an International Cricket Council Cricket World Cup clash with Hong Kong at Queens Sports Club today. Williams has made a good recovery from a broken finger injury with coach Heath Streak yesterday indicating that the player has a great chance to be in action today. The 31-year-old batsman who also bowls left arm spin last played a One Day International for Zimbabwe in July last year against Sri Lanka in Hambantota. Chances are high that if he is picked to play, Williams will come in for Malcolm Waller who has struggled with the bat as he has managed just four runs in two innings. Another change might see Richard Ngarava come in for the suspended Brian Vitori. Ngarava came into the team as a replacement for Vitori who is not allowed to bowl in international cricket after he was found to be using an illegal bowling action. Zimbabwe have an opportunity to secure a place in the Super Six stage of the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier if they beat Hong Kong. The Chevrons have won two of their group B matches, the first by 116 runs over Nepal and the second a nail biting affairs which Zimbabwe took by two runs against their arch-rivals Afghanistan. Zimbabwe need a win against Hong Kong to make sure that they seal their place in the next round of the competition. Log leaders, Scotland were the first team from the group to qualify for the Super Six when they defeated Nepal by four wickets at Queens Sports Club last Thursday. On the same day, pre-tournament favourites suffered a 30-run defeat through the Duckworth/Lewis method to Hong Kong, a loss which dented their hopes of making to next year’s World Cup in England. Zimbabwe cannot afford to underrate Hong Kong because the Asians are also destined for the Super Six. Even if they lose to Zimbabwe, Hong Kong can still progress as the third best team in the group if they overpower Nepal at Bulawayo Athletic Club on Monday. For the Chevrons, a win over Hong Kong is more important since its becoming clear that they will not be carrying points from the victories against Nepal and Afghanistan. Only points picked up from the teams in the group that also make it to the next round of the competition are carried to the Super Six. This means Zimbabwe have to beat Hong Kong and Scotland to enhance their chances of qualifying for the World Cup.— @Mdawini_29