Justice Simango THIS week, Justice Simango (JS) was privileged to interview and profile one of the country’s most sought after thought leaders and image experts, Dr Fungai Mtisi (FM). Below are excerpts from the wide ranging interview. JS: Can you briefly tell us about yourself? FM: I’m a businesswoman running four business units that is, ImageXchange Grooming and Deportment Chambers (IGDC). I can safely say I’m a pioneer in this industry in Zimbabwe. ImageXchange Preschool, Celebrity Apartments on ABB and Tanga Business Institute which assists budding entrepreneurs in the region are also part of what I do. I’m an image consultant by profession and I’ve trained executives and individuals from within and outside Zimbabwe. I’m a professional speaker and have spoken on global platforms with different inspirational messages. I’m an author and the President of the Rotary Club of Avondale. A wife to Warner Mtisi and we’re blessed with two children; our daughter Wendy and son, Leander JS: Describe some of the workplace etiquette breaches employees do. FM: You see etiquette is a set of unwritten rules that apply to social situations, professional workplaces and relationships so it’s not surprising that employees “commit” etiquette crimes unknowingly. I’ll just highlight three and also try and redress the issues 1. Not listening actively – When others are speaking to you, be it your boss, customers or co-workers, give them your full attention and make eye contact. Let them know you are engaged in the conversation. A lot of people have the “I know it all mentally” which then distracts from having an interest in listening to what the other person is saying. Show interest by listening, even if you know what the other person is saying. 2. Arriving late and being unprepared for meetings – I implore all employees to arrive for meetings on time. Ask for the meeting agenda beforehand and prepare accordingly. Always carry a pen and notebook ready to take notes during the meeting. How about investing in a parker pen and an executive bonded note book, funds permitting. It sounds very basic but I’ve found people to use rough papers to scribble notes and the next thing they misplace important information. 3. Inappropriate dress code- for ladies it’s usually revealing clothing, ill-fitting (too tight, too short or oversized) clothes, shouting colours and wild hairstyles while the gentlemen usually err on oversized suits, leaving tags of jackets. Clothes say a lot about you. JS: From your perspective as an image expert, what areas do you think job seekers out there should focus on to increase their chances of being hired? FM: Good question, Justice. Nowadays employers don’t only consider a candidate’s academic qualifications, soft skills also come into play. I recommend that job seekers try as much as possible to look the part. Dress for the job you want. You can also use social media to your advantage, update all your social media accounts and please use professional photos on your profile and your profile statement should portray the professional figure that you are. Secondly, develop yourself, try and acquire business soft skills. Lastly and most importantly, be confident. Our tagline at Image Xchange is “Confidence is KEY to success”. Confidence must be written all over you in the way you walk, talk, a brief but firm handshake and strive to maintain eye contact and always remember to smile. JS: We understand that you’ve been training executives on etiquette and protocol, please share the importance of these trainings especially in the field of corporate governance. FM: I’ve been a trainer for eight years and have 16 years of working experience now and my greatest satisfaction comes from the transformation of my trainees. The fun part is when they tell me that the transformation is not only physical but also includes earning more money, making global connections, making more sales, earning more respect from their peers and running effective and productive meetings. I tell you it’s heartwarming. The transformation ends up impacting the organisation as a whole, not just the trained individuals. It’s important for organisations to invest in etiquette and protocol trainings. John C. Maxwell a leadership guru, once said, “Everything rises and falls on leadership”, when company executives and board members are well equipped, organisations will rise and rise and we can turnaround our economy. JS: What’s your favourite meal and what do you do for fun? FM: My all-time favourite meal is spicy amacimbi. I’m usually busy but taking vacations with my family gives me the much needed rest, we have loads of fun and it re-energises me. The golf course is also a refreshing environment for me. To add on that list, I make time for my sisters who are always in a jovial mood. One of my sisters, I’m sure you know her, is Madam Boss aka Dudzai, the comedian. JS: Lastly Dr Mtisi, what’s the unique business gem in Zimbabwe that most people haven’t explored? FM: Zimbabweans are innovative people and they’ve left all stones turned. However, I’d be happy to see a human robot, designed, developed, programmed and commercialised by a Zimbabwean. That level of innovation would enthuse me. I’d like to mention, however, that a lot of Zimbabweans are hard working and a lot of them are not celebrated because there’s no one who notices the works. I’d like to encourage those to keep on working hard. One day it will pay off. -Justice Simango is a Business Etiquette and Grooming Consultant who writes in his own capacity. He is a member of Toastmasters International. Feedback: justicesimango4@gmail.com WhatsApp: +263717566382