President Mnangagwa and Russia’s Foreign Minister Mr Sergey Lavrov meet at the Munhumutapa Offices, Harare, to discuss ways to improve economic relations between the two countries Farirai Machivenyika, Harare Bureau Zimbabwe and Russia yesterday signed three memoranda of understanding one of which aims to facilitate the setting up of a Russian industrial zone in the country. The MoUs were signed at Munhumutapa Offices following a meeting between Russia’s Foreign Affairs Minister Mr Sergey Lavrov and President Mnangagwa. The other two MoUs focus on mutual co-operation in industrial development and modernisation of Zimbabwe’s agriculture. The MoUs on the establishment of the industrial zone and mutual co-operation in industrial development were signed by Industry and Commerce Minister Dr Mike Bimha and Russia’s Deputy Minister of  Trade and Industry Mr Georgy Kalamanov. The MoU to modernise agriculture was signed by Agriculture, Lands and Rural Resettlement Minister Retired Chief Air Marshal Perrance Shiri and Mr Kalamanov. Addressing a Press conference soon after meeting President Mnangagwa and signing of the MoUs, Mr Lavrov said implementation of the MoUs was urgent. “Professionals will go through these MoUs and will report to the leadership of the countries as well as to the ministries and I do not think this is going to take too much time,” Mr Lavrov said through an interpreter. He said their discussions with the President focused on ways to improve economic relations between the two countries.  “Today during the meeting with the President, with the Vice President (Retired General Constantino Chiwenga), with the ministers from the economic bloc of the Government, we discussed issues meant to develop trade and economic ties between our countries,” said Mr Lavrov. “We placed particular emphasis on the implementation of the joint project of exploring the Darwendale platinum deposit, one of the largest in the world, which is currently operated by a joint venture between Zimbabwe and Russia.” He also said Russia wanted to invest in the country’s diamond sector and told President Mnangagwa of Russian companies’ interest to invest in Zimbabwe. “We also talked about the prospects of military and technical cooperation and we already have a working group in this particular subject under the aegis of the IDC. “We are also paying attention to the international agenda with regard to which we coordinate our positions and priorities in particular within the UN,” Mr Lavrov said. The Russian Foreign Affairs Minister added that he was working with his Zimbabwe counterpart Retired Lieutenant General Sibusiso Moyo on strengthening relations between Russia and the AU, Sadc and other sub-regional organisations. Minister Moyo said Mr Lavrov’s visit had strengthened relations between two countries. “The visit by my colleague Minister Lavrov has escalated the levels of bilateral relations between our two great nations which combine both political and economic ties,” Minister Moyo said. “In particular you are aware that we have got an inter-governmental commission between our nations and this year we are going to hold our next joint commission in Moscow so that we can solidify all the issues which have been discussed.” He said Zimbabwe was hoping for an increased inflow of Russian tourists after it removed it from category C to B to facilitate easier visa access. Countries in category B do not need to apply for a visa in advance.