VP Kembo Mohadi Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter ALL is set for a fundraising dinner that has been organised by the Bulawayo business community to also honour Vice President Kembo Mohadi. The dinner, which is also meant to celebrate VP Mohadi’s appointment and fundraise for charity will be held this evening at the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) at 5PM. Mr Matthew Mutavayi, one of the fundraising dinner organisers said the event will give the business community an opportunity to interact with the VP and also celebrate his recent appointment. He said proceeds from the fundraising dinner will be channelled towards the expansion of the Mpilo Central Hospital cancer unit. “The business community in Bulawayo has come together to congratulate VP Mohadi and celebrate his appointment, discuss pertinent issues affecting the province as well as fundraise for charity. All is set for the event and more than 300 people have confirmed their attendance. “Our target is 500 people, meaning the invitation is still open to the Bulawayo businesspeople to come in their numbers and support this noble cause. This is a non-partisan event, where we expect maximum support from the people of Bulawayo for the development of the city,” said Mr Mutavayi. He said some business people have already donated part of the building material required for the expansion of the unit. “The Mpilo cancer unit was targeted because it’s one of the two cancer units in the country and it’s an important component of the health sector, considering the increasing number of people that are battling with cancer. “A lot has to be done for the unit to be fully functional and make it a state of the art facility. The unit needs a mould room, chemotherapy room, consultation offices and storage rooms. It also needs a physics room, staff tea room, additional toilets, furniture and a perimeter fence,” said Mr Mutavayi. He appealed to the people of Bulawayo to support the noble cause, saying VP Mohadi will on Saturday hand over the proceeds to the hospital. — @pamelashumba1 Ckd CM