Zanu-PF national political commissar Lieutenant-General Engelbert Rugeje (Retired) speaks at a Matabeleland South inter-district meeting in Gwanda yesterday Farirai Machivenyika, Harare Bureau The ruling Zanu PF will establish an Elections Commission in line with provisions of its Constitution to manage the party’s primary elections ahead of the harmonised elections scheduled for later this year. The Commission will be chaired by the party’s National Political Commissar Lieutenant General Engelbert Rugeje (Retired) while other members would be appointed by President Mnangagwa based on their experience and loyalty to the party, among other attributes. This was discussed at an extraordinary session of the Politburo at the party’s headquarters yesterday. The meeting also discussed rules and regulations that will govern the primary elections. Cde Patrick Chinamasa, who is the Secretary for Finance, presented a report on the rules and regulations governing the primary elections on behalf of Secretary for Legal Affairs Cde Paul Mangwana. “These rules and regulations regulate the conduct of party primary elections and they are also there for the purpose of electing candidates to represent Zanu-PF in both local authority and parliamentary elections “There shall be a Zanu-PF Elections Commission whose members shall be appointed by the President and First Secretary for their skill, experience or competence and for their integrity, probity, loyalty and commitment to the party. This is per provision of the constitution,” said Zanu-PF Secretary for Information and Publicity Cde Simon Khaya Moyo. He said aspiring candidates must submit their names to their respective provincial leadership. The dates for the primary elections are yet to be determined. “I want to emphasise that all those who want to contest the primary elections will have to forward their names to the given province and the provincial leadership shall scrutinise the names and forward the list to the Elections Commission which is chaired by the Commissar and those names should not exclude those whom the province may not be recommending. “They should forward all the names and while they are doing so, give reasons why they are not recommending that person to stand for primary elections, and all the names will have to be sent here at the headquarters and finally the Politburo will decide who stands and who does not. No one will be stopped from standing as long as they have the qualifications,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He said the specific requirements would be communicated to the provinces in due course and  reiterated calls for maintaining peace. “What is important to all political parties are peaceful, free and fair elections. There must be no fights like what we have witnessed recently. We want a peaceful election. Those who want to get involved in violence will be prosecuted by law without fear or favour. If you have anything against anyone, do that peacefully without any violence. That must apply to all of us,” he said. The Zanu-PF spokesperson said Cde Rugeje presented a report outlining President Mnangagwa’s countrywide tours that will resume with a tour of Matabeleland North tomorrow. “The National Political Commissar Cde Rugeje gave a detailed commissariat road map. His Excellency will be visiting Matabeleland North Province this coming Friday after an earlier successful visit as you are aware of Mashonaland Central province. “The commissariat is rolling out our party programmes through the presidential tours designed to meet and introduce His Excellency President Mnangagwa to the people in all provinces. “These tours are also linked to economic activities taking place in different areas as part of our 100-day quick win strategy,” Cde Khaya Moyo said. Meanwhile, Cde Khaya Moyo said the revolutionary party also debated the manifesto for the elections during the Politburo. “The National Chairperson of the party Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri presented a comprehensive report on the regalia as well as manifesto which the politburo debated on and greatly appreciated.”