Bosso’s Nigel Makumbe tussles for possession with Black Rhinos’ seasoned winger Masimba Mambare at Barbourfields Stadium last Sunday Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Premier Soccer League has reopened the floor for bidders to submit their tenders for the media audio-visual media rights. The development comes 10 days after the topflight soccer body announced that initial bidders failed to satisfy the requirements and expectations of the league. A number of companies, including the national broadcaster ZBC, had submitted their tender documents to the PSL before the February 7 deadline. The league has increased the amount of tender documents with detailed specifications and the bid procedure which are obtainable from their offices from $100 which was paid for ahead of last month’s deadline to $500. Companies eyeing to become the official Premier Soccer League broadcasting partners have up to next week to submit their tenders, whose deadline is Wednesday April 4. “Tenders are invited for the following: Media Broadcasting Rights for Premier Soccer League events. “Tender documents with detailed specifications and the bid procedure are obtainable from the Premier Soccer League Offices for a non-refundable fee of $500. Tenders must be received clearly marked outside with the advertised tender number (PSL/02/18) and delivered by courier service or hand deposited into the tender box by end of business 1700hrs on 04 April 2018 at the Premier Soccer League Head Office. No late tenders shall be accepted,” reads part of the advert. Following the expiry of a six-year broadcasting rights deal with SuperSport at the end of the 2017 season, the PSL are searching for a new partner to beam the topflight for the next five years. The PSL opened the floor for bidders to submit their tenders in a transparent way. Broadcasting of the 2018 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League matches on both radio and TV will only be done after the league finalises the media audio-visual media rights process. Besides ZBC, some reports claimed a Switzerland company, Infront Sports and Media, was interested in the deal. Dr Dish, whose marriage with Econet Media and Kwese TV collapsed in spectacular fashion, are also reportedly interested in securing the PSL television rights deal as part of their programming with new foreign investors. SuperSport were the first to win the rights after their historic marriage with the PSL in 2012. Since then, the league’s stock has been rising, with clubs hoping for a bigger and better package from which they can reap more rewards. With SuperSport on board, clubs cashed in around $22 000 per season, something that cushioned their coffers. Some argued that the money paid to clubs through the SuperSport deal was peanuts, but it was better than starting the season without knowing whether the league will be able to get a better deal. A positive from the SuperSport deal was that some clubs managed to market their players to foreign teams, mostly South Africa Premiership sides, which followed action on TV. The new official partners will have to at least better the package previously offered by SuperSport. They are expected to prove that they have the capacity to broadcast and fulfil contractual obligations like paying the clubs their share. SuperSport beamed more than 200 games in five seasons, averaging 40 matches per season. They also paid the club’s royalties at the beginning of the season. The league’s committee responsible for the tender process is expected to interrogate the financial well-being of companies interested in the deal. @ZililoR