Dr Sylvia Utete-Masango Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter GOVERNMENT is set to launch the $6 million e-schools programme this Friday where 20 schools countrywide will be equipped with computers as part of a drive to boost the uptake of Information, Communication and Technology in education. The e-school models are innovative tools that provide an easy way for parents, teachers and children to collaborate and organise all the information necessary for teaching and learning. Under the programme, two schools in every province will each get 16 computers in a project known as the Unesco-Korean Funds-in Trust, funded by Unesco and the South Korean government. Primary and Secondary Education Permanent Secretary Dr Slyvia Utete-Masango said the national launch would be hosted by Bulawayo province where two schools, one primary and one secondary, would be equipped with computers. “The e-school model is being funded by Unesco with funding coming from South Korea and each school will get 16 computers. For Bulawayo the secondary school is KGVI which means the computers are actually tailored to the needs of KGVI as these are special type of computers. The other school is Nkulumane Primary,” said Dr Masango. She said the programme would be rolled out countrywide where 20 schools per province, 10 primary and 10 secondary schools would benefit. “It means Bulawayo province will get 32 computers and the surrounding schools are meant to benefit especially in some cases where we have learners who require specialised computers. They can benefit from the equipment at KGVI. We are launching in Bulawayo but every province is actually getting 32 computers,” said Dr Utete-Masango. She said the guest of honour at the event would be Primary and Secondary Education Minister, Professor Paul Mavima, and also in attendance would be Unesco country director and the South Korean Ambassador to Zimbabwe as well as the Minister of State for Bulawayo Province, Cde Angeline Masuku. The Unesco-Korean Funds-in Trust, ICT Transforming Education in Africa is a 4-year project launched in 2015 to foster human and social development in Mozambique, Rwanda and Zimbabwe, through the use of information and communication technology (ICT). It has a budget of $6 million. Its beneficiaries are teachers and students, primary and secondary public schools, higher education institutions, policy -makers, educational administrators and leaders. Last year, 40 teachers from 20 pilot schools received training at a train the trainer workshop in Harare. The aim was to have two resident trainers per school. The launch of the e-schools project comes a few days after President Mnangagwa launched the national ICT-Policy as well as the national innovation drive aimed at promoting the development and growth of local ICT innovations in the country. @AuxiliaK