Under 21 boys’ walking race at White City Stadium in Bulawayo yesterday Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE historic joint primary and secondary schools track and field athletics event that started at White City Stadium in Bulawayo on Tuesday ends today with the announcement of the winners and athletes who will represent the country in the regional tournament in Botswana in May. While the four-day meet had its own problems reminiscent of any inaugural event, the overall gathering has left an indelible mark in the history of schools athletics not only in Zimbabwe but in Africa as a whole as it was for the first time that primary and secondary schools held such an event. Held under the theme “United in Sport”, the event also made full use of the 2014 African Union Sports Council Region Five Under-20 Youth Games’ facilities and expertise from the over 300 officials. Speaking at the official opening ceremony of the meet on Wednesday, Cynthia Khumalo, the National Association of School Heads (Nash) president, who are the organisers of the historic competition, said dictates of the new educational curriculum made them hold the joint meet. “We are making history ladies and gentlemen, this has never happened in the history of Zimbabwe. This is a massive meet for a single sporting event between primary and secondary schools, bringing more than 2 000 athletes and over 300 officials with the age groups ranging from the Under-12 to the Under-21 all in one roof. We certainly want to salute the heads, teachers and indeed parents for a job well done,” she said. The Chinotimba Primary School in Victoria Falls headmistress also hailed the massive support that they got from the Bulawayo community who came out in large numbers from the first day of the competition. “We also want to salute Bulawayo residents for the massive support rendered to the tournament as we prepare for the regional competitions and beyond,” said Khumalo. The Under-12 to Under-18 athletes will proceed to Botswana for the 2018 edition of the Confederation of School Sport Association of Southern Africa (Cossasa) Games with the Nash president revealing that the event has been slated for May 6-9 in Francistown. Zimbabwe are the defending champions of the regional schools athletics Games having cruised to the winners’  podium on home soil at the giant National Sports Stadium last year. “A lot of people have been asking questions as to why did we (Naph and Nash) unite. There is always a starting point and we are just being relevant to the dictates of the new curriculum which demands that we change the way we operate, albeit for the better,” said Khumalo. Speaking in her key note address, the acting Provincial Education Director for Bulawayo province, Olicah Kaira, commended the organisers of the historic event and said the Government was fully behind such sporting and educational endeavours. “The ministry fully supports and commends such sporting and educational endeavours which strive for the holistic development of our learners, which is the reason why we have all gathered here. This event speaks of the commitment from all of us. “Naph and Nash are the professional organs within the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education which have the mandate to coordinate sports festivals in close liaison with district, provincial and head office as stipulated in Circular Number Two of 1994, part Three. Let us therefore support Naph and Nash as they fulfil their mandate,” said Kaira. Nash technical head Arthur Maphosa expressed optimism that the team that will be named today will raise the Zimbabwean flag high in Botswana. — @skhumoyo2000.