Harare Bureau The Agriculture Marketing Authority (AMA) has challenged farmers in Chiredzi to continuously improve the quality and quantity of their crops to boost their seasonal earnings. Addressing farmers during a field day held at Village 6 in Ward 28 of Chiredzi West Constituency yesterday, AMA Southern Region manager Mr Simon Pande urged extension workers to help farmers to improve their yield. “As the Agriculture Marketing Authority our plea is for extension workers to continue helping farmers like Mr Mabhunu, who took up the challenge to grow tobacco in the Lowveld, to boost production,” he said. “The most critical stage in tobacco production is curing. A farmer who cures his crop properly earns more. The farmer must be assisted in monitoring humidity and temperature so that he produces the best grade.” Mr Pande challenged farmers to sell their crops to authorised dealers for them to realise the true value of their crop. “This tobacco crop must act as a model for most farmers here in Chiredzi. If one farmer is successful other farmers will be motivated to grow the crop, which will influence the Tobacco Industry Marketing Board to eventually set up auction floors here,” he said. “Government wants farmers to get the full value of their crops so you need to work with us by selling your produce through the formal channels. If you have grain take it to the Grain Marketing Board and if you have cotton take it to the Cotton Company of Zimbabwe or registered private players. Don’t sell your crops to opportunists because they will not offer you a fair price.” Acting Chiredzi District Agritex extension officer Mr Chenjerai Zvenyika said farmers must improve their standards of living whenever they were paid for their crops. “Farming is a business, which requires the farmer to be serious. You must work towards improving your life styles and sending your children to school,” he said. Mr Josiah Vaso Mabhunu said he was motivated to grow tobacco in the Lowveld after seeing the amount of money that tobacco farmers, especially those in Mashonaland provinces, were getting. “I was just motivated by the huge returns, which farmers in areas such as Mount Darwin were receiving from the sale of their tobacco. “I want to motivate other farmers in this area to join me in growing tobacco so that we can invite companies to come and finance our operations,” said Mr Mabhunu.