Kudzai Bare Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Castle Lager Premier Soccer League has allayed fears of disruption of its programme following condemnation of four stadia that had been earmarked for use by clubs for the season, which kicks off next week. The First Instance Body (FIB) met on Monday and approved seven facilities out of 11 to be used when the league kicks off on March 17. Facilities that were condemned by the FIB are Shabanie Mine’s home ground Maglas, topflight returnees Mutare City Rovers’ Sakubva, Ascot the home of Chapungu as well as newly promoted Nichrut, and ZPC Kariba’s Nyamhunga. Stadia that have been given the green light are the National Sports Stadium, Rufaro, Barbourfields, Luveve, Gibbo, Baobab and Mandava. The National Sports Stadium and Rufaro cater for Harare-based sides Dynamos, Caps United, Black Rhinos, Yadah FC and newly promoted Herentals. ZPC Kariba could opt to play their home games in Harare or Baobab Stadium, which is home to Ngezi Platinum Stars, while waiting for the local authority to work on Nyamhunga. It will not be the first time for ZPC Kariba to play their home games away from Kariba, having done so in their debut season in 2014 when they played their matches in Harare. Mutare City Rovers could either use Harare facilities or Gibbo, which is home to Triangle United. Shabanie Mine, Chapungu and Nichrut are likely to opt for Mandava, the home of champions FC Platinum. Highlanders and Bulawayo City will share Barbourfields Stadium, while Chicken Inn and Premiership new boys Bulawayo Chiefs will use Luveve Stadium. “We appreciate the role of the FIB and it is our hope that the local authorities will move swiftly to address issues raised so that Premiership football matches are played at the said stadiums. We are cognisant of what clubs are facing and we want to assure all stakeholders that these developments won’t affect the start of the season. There are seven venues that have been cleared and we have nine games played on each match day. Most clubs share venues and our programmes will not be affected in anyway,” said PSL communications officer Kudzai Bare. The FIB, made up of chairperson Piraishe Mabhena, deputy chairperson Willard Manyengavana, Nobioth Magwizi, Dennis Tshuma, Gilbert Saika as well as ex-officio members Xolisani Gwesela, the Zifa communications manager and PSL competitions manager Elisha Mandireva, will revisit the condemned facilities after renovations. “For Maglas, Sakubva, Ascot and Nyamhunga, the FIB recommended extensive refurbishments in order to satisfy minimum standards on the club licensing check list if they are to be certified to host topflight league matches. Issues to be addressed at condemned stadia are sitting facilities for the VIP, expansion of dressing rooms and making sure that there are showers as well as sanitary facilities, medical and doping rooms. The media areas, fence surrounding the pitch and broadcasting facilities should be there if they are to pass. Once renovations are done, we will re-inspect the facilities,” said Gwesela. @ZililoR