 Showbiz Reporter THE National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (NACZ) in collaboration with arts associations, arts organisations and promoters has lined up activities throughout Zimbabwe to commemorate three UN Observances falling within the month of March. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco) proclaimed days of human expressions are World Day of Theatre for Children and Young People observed on March 20, World Poetry Day on March 21 and World Theatre Day on March 27. These are celebrated annually. As such, Zimbabwe will be joining the rest of the world in celebrating through a host of activities that have been arranged by NACZ. An open mic session at the National Arts Gallery has been organised for the Bulawayo celebrations on Saturday. But before that, a play – Fragile – will be premiered at the Bulawayo Theatre tomorrow. “The activities that will be held to celebrate World Poetry Day, support linguistic diversity through poetic expression and in addition, offer minority languages the opportunity to be heard within their communities,” NACZ spokesperson Catherine Mthombeni said. “NACZ coordinated the organisation of the activities because poetry is an integral part in cultural identity. World Poetry Day is a platform to honour poets, revive oral traditions and promote the reading, writing and teaching of poetry at distinct levels. Poetry, being part of oral tradition is an expression of diverse shared values and norms that are practiced in communities.” For the World Theatre Day and Assitej Day celebrations, Mthombeni said national centres, companies, arts organisations, academics, teachers, artists and practitioners nationwide had planned workshops and would stage performances in recognition of the crucial role theatre plays in societies as a form of expression. In Bulawayo, people will converge at Matshobana Hall next Wednesday for plays Naked Truth and Look, Listen and Decide organised by Bambelela Arts Ensemble. “It’s a day when theatre lovers can converge and celebrate the artistic form that mirrors the society and is a leeway for freedom of expression,” Mthombeni said. “National Arts Council of Zimbabwe therefore encourages all communities to partake in the celebrations that’ll give communities a sense of togetherness and belonging hence instilling national pride.”