Zifa Communications Manager Xolisani Gwesela Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter BULAWAYO giants Highlanders have scored a first by becoming the first club in Zimbabwe to be certified under the Fifa Club Licensing requirements. The First Instance Body (FIB) certified the club last week. Zifa communications manager Xolisani Gwesela, who is also an ex-officio member of the FIB, didn’t shed much light, but confirmed that Bosso were granted their licence on February 24 following an inspection by the FIB chaired by Zifa executive committee member Piraishe Mabhena. Zvishavane-based outfit FC Platinum were the second club to be granted the licence. According to the club licensing requirements, for infrastructure under Category A, stadia must have a control centre; minimum seating capacity of 5 000; first aid and doping room; sanitary facilities; facilities for spectators with special needs and a lease agreement guaranteeing use of the stadium. Bosso uses Barbourfields Stadium, which has a seating capacity of 35 000 and has all the required facilities following work done on the facility ahead of the 2014 African Union Sports Council Region Five Under-20 Youth Games. Catergory B requires that there be ground rules, signage and directions, media and broadcasting facilities, training facilities as well as demarcated bays for visiting teams. Category C stipulates that there be floodlights, individual and covered seats. Highlanders’ chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube welcomed the certification, saying it was a manifestation of good corporate governance at the club. “It means a lot. It certainly confirms that we are trying to do the correct things administratively and that our vision of corporatising our brand is alive. It also shows that working together works because it takes collective institutional effort to implement programmes and achieve good results,” said Dube. “We are of course awake to the reality that much more needs to be done for us to become a fully fledged commercial entity that can be a trendsetter and club of choice for football and non-football professionals, fans, partners and sponsors. We are particularly thankful to the secretariat team for keeping their eyes on the proverbial ball and their shoulders on the wheel,” he said. FC Platinum spokesperson Chido Chizondo said: “Our facilities have been approved to host international matches and the stadium was homologated.” @skhumoyo2000