President Mnangagwa Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa has said Zimbabweans must embrace each other in their diversity regardless of language or ethnicity. Speaking at the 5th CEO Africa Roundtable conference in Victoria Falls yesterday, President Mnangagwa, who was the guest of honour, also said media reform is one of his administration’s top priorities to promote diversity. He appealed to the media to shift from the traditional stance of “follow the political” leader approach saying the new dispensation is about economics. The President challenged the media to “strive for reportage that inspires, that tells a true story and portrays pictures of hope and a brighter tomorrow.” “We should embrace and accept each other in our diversity, be it in language, religion, ethnicity, culture or geographical location. “To this end I appeal to the media to take a leading deliberate and patriotic stance that esteems our national interests, unity, values and aspirations by disseminating information to the rest of the world pronouncing that it is a new era and Zimbabwe is open for business,” said President Mnangagwa. “Let us shift from being about politics, politics and politics. The new dispensation is about economics, economics and economics for the betterment of all people in Zimbabwe. “I challenge you therefore ladies and gentlemen of the media fraternity whether you report on politics, sports, economics or social life, to remember that you belong here, this is your country and you are Zimbabwean. Zimbabwe is ours together.” During a discussion session, one participant, Mr William Nyemba, who is the former CEO of Trust Bank, asked what government was doing in terms of opening up the media space, which he said is critical in promoting the Zimbabwean brand. In response, President Mnangagwa said media reform is a government priority. “In terms of opening of airwaves and media space, I think that’s the way to go. We were living in an isolated country but the current government is determined to embrace the international community,” said the President. “We are determined to play our role and to do so we must look at policies which exist and restrain us in our country. Opening up the media space will help us debate even internationally.”  — @ncubeleon