Mr Lovemore Moyo Nduduzo Tshuma, Political Editor MDC-T national chairman Mr Lovemore Moyo yesterday quit both his position and the party citing, among other issues, what he called the unconstitutional power grab by leader Mr Nelson Chamisa. Mr Moyo, an ally of one of the party’s vice presidents Dr Thokozani Khupe, also cited violence that is rocking the party, tribalism and sexism for his resignation from the party. Dr Khupe has been involved in a vicious battle over the control of the MDC-T from the days leading to the death of party founding leader Morgan Tsvangirai who died in February and after his burial. Despite Mr Chamisa’s endorsement by the MDC-T national executive as the party’s leader, Dr Khupe has refused to recognise him arguing that she was the rightful heir to the presidency on the basis that she is the only elected official among the late Tsvangirai’s deputies. Before Tsvangirai’s death, Mr Moyo, Dr Khupe and party national organising secretary Mr Abednigo Bhebhe had fallen out with their then boss over the formation of an alliance of opposition parties to challenge the ruling Zanu-PF in this year’s election. They stopped attending party meetings from August last year after they were assaulted at the party’s Bulawayo provincial office by youths reportedly linked to Tsvangirai over their stance against the MDC Alliance. Mr Moyo’s spokesperson, Mr Artwell Sibanda yesterday confirmed the resignation. “He spoke to Chamisa minutes ago and has sent his resignation letter. His reasons are that the party has deviated from its core values of non-sexism and non-violence,” said Mr Sibanda. “The events that led to violent scenes in Harare, Bulawayo and during the burial of Tsvangirai (where some youths targeted Dr Khupe and others and attempted to burn them inside a hut) were also cited as reasons for his resignation as well as the usurping of power by Chamisa against the provisions of the party constitution.” Meanwhile, the MDC-T national council meets today where it is expected to decisively act on Dr Khupe amid growing calls for her expulsion. Addressing a rally made up of her allies last Sunday, Dr Khupe said they were breaking away from the main party to join the People’s Rainbow Coalition led by Dr Joice Mujuru with whom they would partner in this year’s national elections. MDC-T spokesperson Ms Thabitha Khumalo yesterday said the party will discuss recommendations made by organs tasked with solving the impasse and then make a decision that is most likely to affect party national organising secretary Mr Abednigo Bhebhe. “In accordance with the constitution, the party sent an arbiter to deal with the matter, church leaders were also engaged while president Chamisa also made efforts to engage Khupe. The national council will then hear the outcome of those engagements and recommendations will be tabled before a decision is taken,” she said.