Manu Mahaso Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent RENOWNED club manager Manu Mahaso turned 42 on Wednesday and the man behind the vibe at Cosmopolitan Night Club in Bulawayo, says he has a lot of good things to reflect on and look forward to. Manu, as the man is called by many, is a gentle giant who has made a mark at every nightspot that has been under his management. He has managed the now defunct Paparazzi Night Club, Club Connect, then Club Eden, BAC and Cape to Cairo, leaving an indelible mark in most instances. To celebrate his birthday, Manu will stage a party that will feature performances by Harare’s Judgement Yard next week Saturday at Cosmopolitan. He said his wish was to have people come out and party with him. “Judgement Yard know how to throw a party. They’re close friends of mine and I thought why not have them. They’ll be joined by the talented Djembe Monks who’re very talented and of course, Cosmopolitan resident DJs.” Chief among what he wants to celebrate is the long life and good health that he has enjoyed for 42 years. “I’m getting better with age and just like wine, I’m becoming more mature with the way I tackle life. I’m grateful to the Almighty for the good health that has seen me enjoy life and see my children grow with one in Lower Six, which is a good thing,” said Manu. He said there were a lot more highs than lows in his life, but all those were lessons. “In life, one goes through good and bad times. For me, however, there’ve been more highs than lows and I owe this to God. He’s been in control of my life and has been blessing me a lot.” Being in the entertainment business for over 15 years has afforded Manu the chance to meet several musicians and influential people, something he says has helped develop his career. “Life in the entertainment business has been a journey that has nurtured me. I’ve travelled a lot and met many people across the world. Tuku is one of the best people I’ve met as he’s like a father who always has a word of wisdom to share with you,” said Manu.