 Midlands Bureau Chief ZIMBABWE is geared to lead the Information Communication Technology (ICT) revolution in the region following the recent launch of the National ICT Policy by President Mnangagwa, a Rwanda investor has said. The crafting of an ICT policy would provide a coordinated use of modern technologies that will catalyse economic growth in the country, says Rwanda entrepreneur, Mr Pascal Ngiveye, who owns Pascal Technologies (Ltd). Mr Ngiveye is in Gweru to introduce a smart tap and go card that enables commuters to pay their transport fares electronically. Pascal Technologies is a leading technology company in Rwanda, which installs and supports electronic payment systems for transfer of technology. It has signed an MoU with Zimbabwean company, Netcoms hence the two are jointly working on the pilot project. “I attended the ICT launch by President Mnangagwa and I am convinced that in less than two years this country can be an ICT hub for this region given Government’s commitment,” he said. Mr Ngiveye said he had come to give Netcoms a boost to launch the tap and go system in the transport sector. “We are here to empower our brothers in Zimbabwe through transfer of ICT. “We have done it in Rwanda where 98 percent of the population use the tap and go card. “Cashless transactions can be of great use in Zimbabwe. Even tourists visiting Rwanda pay using their visa card and that can be good for Zimbabwe, which is opening its doors for business,” he said. A subsidiary of TM group of companies, Netcoms is a technology company that develops, manufactures, supports and sells computer software and services. Chairperson of TM Group of companies, Dr Tinashe Manzungu, said they were enthused when President Mnangagwa encouraged use of ICT in the transport sector. “We are taking the initiative by investing in ICT in transport. We have the expertise we got from Rwanda and by June we will be launching the tap and go card across the country,” he said. Dr Manzungu said the tap and go card will enable transport companies to be more efficient and will also improve revenue collection. “Installation of electronic payment machines has started for all routes in Gweru and soon we will be extending coverage to all Harare and Bulawayo routes. “The service bouquet includes GPS tracking, where we install GPS trackers, monitor and track vehicles for a small fee,” said Dr Manzungu.