Mrs Laura Gwatiringa (far left) and Mrs Molly Dingani from CBZ with Mr Washington Mbizvo carry the CBZ sponsorship cheque Showbiz Reporter CBZ Holdings has availed $168 000 for the new CBZ Schools’ Debate for primary schools which will see winning schools getting double the prize money if they are existing clients. At least $60 000 of the money availed for the competition, will go towards the top three winning schools at national level as well as competition’s outreach and facilitation. The CBZ Schools’ Debate Championship, the bank said, was being launched, firstly targeted at primary school level pupils with plans to incorporate secondary school pupils in future. Provincial debates are expected to start next month and there will be prizes for winning schools and their pupils. The national finals are set to be held in Bulawayo on a date and venue yet to be advised. Speaking at the debate’s launch in Harare yesterday, Laura Gwatiringa, the CBZ Holding group marketing and corporate affairs executive urged participating schools to bank with CBZ in order to get double the prizes. “We urge schools to bank with us if they want to get double the prizes. For qualifying at provincial level, the winners will get $1 000 but that will double if the schools are banking with us. “The overall national winner will receive $7 500 which will also double if they bank with us while the first runner up will get $5 000,” Gwatiringa said. CBZ Holdings divisional director, Molly Dingani, said the bank believes not just in partnerships but smart partnerships for success. “It was on this basis that we decided to build on our existing investment in the education sector even further and partner with the National Association of Primary Heads and Institute of African Knowledge in bringing to the nation a well-run and competitive debate programme,” she said. Dingani said the debate provides experiences that raise cognitive and presentation skills among pupils. “The pupils will acquire skills to rationally deploy arguments to elucidate their own viewpoints using rational eloquence. They’ll ultimately develop poise and confidence and they’ll learn to read, research and organise themselves as they operate within teams,” she said. Registration to participate in the debate is already underway with primary schools across the country being urged to take it up. “Registration and participation by the schools is absolutely free,” Dingani said. Primary and Secondary Education Minister Professor Paul Mavima hailed CBZ Holdings for coming up with the schools’ debate championship saying it would empower pupils with necessary skills. “My Ministry takes particular interest in this programme, within the framework of the New Dispensation and the revised curriculum, where we are emphasising the need for empowering our scholars with practical skills. “This is especially encouraging, considering the fact that such arts as debate have generally till now, been confined to secondary and tertiary levels. I therefore commend CBZ and the Institute of African Knowledge for having had the insight and foresight to understand that moulding our scholars begins at the very basic levels,” said Prof Mavima.