 Prince Sunduzani, Business Reporter A GERMANY business delegation, comprising high profile Germany companies, visited the country recently and expressed interest in taping investment opportunities in the banking sector and motor industry among others. Motor industry giant, Volkswagen, Voith Hydro Holdings, Siemens Healthineers and Airbus representatives, were part of the delegation. According to the Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries (CZI), the visit exposed the Germans to investment opportunities in Zimbabwe. “CZI participated in the Germany Business Mission to explore and assess the country’s economic environment and the existing opportunities for investment in Zimbabwe. The Germany delegation comprised high profile companies including Volkswagen, Voith Hydro Holdings, Siemens Healthineers and Airbus, who engaged several local companies such as DHL, Stanbic Bank, Willowvale Motor Industry amongst others,” said CZI. “The delegation networked with local companies to understand how business operations are carried out. After engaging the business leaders, the Germany delegation went on to meet with the Zimbabwean Government further exploring the investment opportunities and conditions in the country”. CZI said the visit allowed business to business meetings with the local business community and a field trip to Msasa Industrial area in Harare. The country has seen a number of businesses coming in to scout for investment opportunities following the relaxation of investment policies and renewed confidence brought in by the new political administration under President Mnangagwa. Last month, the Confederation of Zimbabwe (CZI) Industries signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with its Italian counterpart Confindustria to facilitate mutual trade and investment between the two countries. The MoU mainly focused on how Zimbabwe can benefit from industrial and technological collaboration between the enterprises and economic institutions of the two countries. Prior to that, some of the world’s top digital companies had showed interest in investing in Zimbabwe’s Information Communication Technology (ICT) sector. A number of global ICT and digital corporates were in Victoria Falls for a three-day first ever Data Centre Africa Expo conference in Zimbabwe. One of the companies seeking investment partners in Zimbabwe was Siemon, a 114-year-old telecommunication business that specialises in the design and manufacture of high quality and high performance low voltage infrastructure solutions and services for data centre, Local Area Networks (LANS) and intelligence buildings with global sales, technical and logistics expertise spanning over 100 countries. Close to 100 delegates from across the globe attended the conference whose aim was to grow the data centre market and to update players in the ICT sector of developments in the industry. @PrinceNkosy102