Lady Tshawe Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent WOMEN of Valour, a grouping of female gospel singers from different denominations based in Bulawayo will today release their debut self-titled DVD album. Running under the banner Women of Valour  Volume 1, the DVD has 14 tracks and is the brainchild of gospel artiste, Lorraine Maplanka Stot and her husband Blessing Stot with Margret Mwamuka as the patron. The maiden project features songs from Lorraine Maplanka Stot, Faith Mucha, Minister Nompu (Nompumelelo Bhebhe), Margret Mwamuka, Sithokozile Maplanka (Lorraine’s biological mother), Lady Tshawe, Amanda Grace, and Mimmie Tarukwana. They were backed by Silibaziso Ndebele, Le-Andre Maplanka, Paula Paloma, Gamelihle, Natalie and Nonsikelelo Tshuma. The DVD was recorded at Robert Sibson Hall last year with the help of Outfit Band. Women of Valour recently showcased their talent during the Biometric Voter Registration concert headlined by Lebo Sekgobela the Lion of Judah hit-maker and the group did not put a foot wrong. “These are ladies from different denominations with different styles in singing, but with one cause, which is to glorify God in singing to Him. We selected these particular ones seeing the passion they boast,” Blessing Stot said. He said the concept was initiated to promote women in music. “Women in music are a gifted breed that goes with little attention time and again as the  world of gospel music in Zimbabwe evolves. We aim at launching the different talents that these various ladies possess and set them on a path to a great music career. “With the help of Stot Bass Productions and The Outfit band, we hope to set off many other gifted talents in our society through this production brand.” Working on the album, Stot said had been a challenging process though it was worthwhile. The DVD which costs $5 will be available at outlets Video Ezzy (corner 9th avenue & Robert Mugabe), Techno Basket Shop at Haddon & Sly complex and at Harvest House International Church Library (corner Fife Street and 6th Avenue). The gospel singers are set to work on another album soon, which would be a follow up to the first one.