Thandeka Moyo, Health Reporter GOVERNMENT and doctors yesterday entered into negotiations over the ongoing national strike and the health practitioners are set to consult their members on the possibility of ending the strike today. Hospital doctors downed tools on March 1 after petitioning Government to address their grievances which include payment of locum allowances. Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors’ Association (ZHDA) spokesperson Dr Mxolisi Ngwenya told The Chronicle that their members will meet to map the way forward following representations from Government. “We had a meeting with the Health Services Bipartite Negotiation Panel today and we are currently communicating so we will decide our next move. We will go on to discuss the outcome of the meeting as ZHDA tomorrow and then communicate our decision,” said Dr Ngwenya. The panel guides on conditions of service and other mutual issues between the employer and employees. Health Services Board chief executive officer Mrs Ruth Kaseke could not be reached for comment as her mobile was unreachable by last night. In a joint statement issued on Sunday, the Ministry of Health and Child Care and the Health Services Board said the strike was illegal. The statement also said at an extra ordinary BNP meeting held on February 13, Government had addressed some of the doctors’ grievances among them locum payments, a $10 million worth motor vehicle scheme, availability of equipment and medicines at hospitals and a freeze of vacant positions. Government said it had provided essential equipment and sundries through various channels such as the $100 million Chinese loan facility for equipment support through the Global Fund. Last week, doctors at Mpilo Central Hospital handed a letter to the hospital’s clinical director, Dr Solwayo Ngwenya, addressed to the Minister Dr David Parirenyatwa. The doctors said there was lack of urgency in addressing their issues. “This serves as a notice that with effect from March 1 we will be unable to discharge our normal duties until such a time the ministry decides to prioritise our people’s health. Our locums remain unpaid since October 2017 and we remain severely understaffed. “There are no essential drugs and fluids and patients are dying unnecessarily. There has been no written response from you to address this and no tangible efforts,” read the letter. @thamamoe