Cde Angelina Masuku Chronicle Correspondent GOVERNMENT has called on all Zimbabweans to unite and shun tribal and political discrimination to preserve peace and allow development to take shape under the new political dispensation. The Minister of State for Provincial Affairs in Bulawayo, Cde Angelina Masuku, said the country would achieve greater things if all Zimbabweans unite as she decried incidents of disunity that rocked the city in the last few days. She made the remarks during the burial of Willie Sigauke at West Park Cemetery in Bulawayo on Saturday. The deceased was a teacher at Mbonqane Secondary School on the outskirts of Bulawayo and is a close relative to high ranking army officer, Major General David Sigauke, who also attended the solemn service alongside Chief of Staff Major General Hlanganani Dube and other senior army officials. Last Friday, the Mthwakazi Republic Party activists caused chaos in Bulawayo as they ran amok in the city centre after the High Court had blocked the coronation of the Ndebele King. On Sunday MDC-T supporters also clashed in violent skirmishes that left several people injured. Cde Masuku said for the country to move forward, unity of purpose should be prioritised. “What we want to see is that the transformation that is there assists everyone to succeed. We want to see our economy succeeding. We can only achieve this when there is peace and unity, without discrimination on tribal or political affiliations but focusing on rebuilding the nation because without peace there is no development,” said Cde Masuku. She said the country should take a leaf from its past leaders who denounced violence for peace and taught that peace has to develop within an individual first. “Our leaders taught us that peace starts with me, peace starts with you, peace starts with all of us, by us it means us together, working with the military, supporting our leaders, supporting our President, our children supporting each other and holding each other’s hands,” said the minister. Cde Masuku dismissed claims that former President Cde Robert Mugabe was ousted from power through a military coup saying this was a gross distortion of record. She said from her knowledge the people of Zimbabwe united to put an end to Cde Mugabe’s rule. “We observed that the military was part of the transformation that led to the new dispensation. It’s not true that they took power by force. Because when the nation rose to demonstrate its unity, they were not forced by the military to do so. They were uniting with the military because they wanted change,” she said. Speaking at the same gathering, Major General Sigauke concurred with Cde Masuku saying the development of Zimbabwe should top the nation’s agenda. “That is the unity we want in Zimbabwe where people from Matabeleland North, Matabeleland South, Mashonaland and even Harare can converge in one place. If we are united we will be able to protect our land, we will also be able to invest and also progress,” said Maj Gen Sigauke. “As Zimbabweans let’s remain united and develop our country. Let us have one vision. We can have differences but we should all remember we are Zimbabweans.” — @nqotshili.