 Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent ZBC’s Khulumani FM started broadcasting on Friday and artistes from Bulawayo have commended the new radio station for giving them another platform to showcase their talent. Khulumani FM, broadcasting at 95.0mghz, is the latest addition to the ZBC radio stations stable, as a local commercial radio station. Khulumani FM broadcasts to audiences in the Bulawayo Metropolitan Province and surrounding areas within a 40km radius. The station is managed by the popular seasoned personality Omphile Marupi deputised by Nokuthula Ndlovu and Rachel Hwambo. According to ZBC’s acting public relations manager, Firstme Vitori, the radio station was set up in response to President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s 100 days impact delivery plan — the Rapid Results Initiative. Vitori said the radio station was also meant to provide a platform for artistes from Bulawayo and the entire Matabeleland region who were being sidelined by national radio stations. “National radio stations including those from the ZBC stable despite fulfilling the requirements of the law, have not been able to play much of the music from Bulawayo and Matabeleland region due to commercial demands and the delicate task of balancing different regions across the country. “This has disadvantaged artistes from Bulawayo and the region who as a result are missing out on royalties from Zimura.” “Khulumani FM thus comes in as a direct answer by playing 60 percent of music from artistes in Bulawayo and the Matabeleland region and discusses topical issues that affect people of Bulawayo and the surrounding areas,” said Vitori. Jeys Marabini who said the move was long overdue, said the new station will create healthy competition. Jeys Marabini “I want to commend ZBC for coming up with such an initiative that’ll benefit artistes from Bulawayo and the Matabeleland region who’ve longed for such a radio station. We are going to benefit as artistes through payment of royalties,” said Jeys. Award winning rapper Cal Vin said while the move was praiseworthy, the station should be fair in selecting artistes to be on its playlist. “The coming in of Khulumani FM gives us another platform to be heard by our fans. It’s necessary competition which will improve quality of our productions. I hope there won’t be any discrimination on who’ll be played on the station,” said Cal Vin. Talented gospel crew Vocal Ex, also welcomed the move by ZBC saying this shows that they are valued as artistes. “This is a stamp of approval for us as gospel artistes who have been working very hard to make a name for ourselves. The radio station has reached out to us to help grow our brand and also bring us closer to people who listen to gospel music,” said Thembelani Mdlaziba one of the founding members of the group. Vitori said Khulumani FM programming is a mixture of talk, 40 percent and music, 60 percent. She said the station is broadcasting in Ndebele, Xhosa, Venda, Sotho, Tonga, Kalanga and English including the news bulletins. Vitori said although some of the presenters are wet behind the ears, they were extremely talented. “Listeners should look out for rough diamonds such as Sakeleni Nxumalo who would be anchoring sports, Khanyile Sithole on KoloiYaMonathe (Lunch Time) and Mariah Masoka with KoloiYaMonathe (Drive Time). One of the best talents on the land Exult Ncube anchors breakfast (Chu! Nompulampuli) while other presenters to look forward to include Thokozani Mnkandla, Tracy Ndlovu, Philip Moyo, Marvelous Tshuma, Leonard Ncube and Hlengiwe Mtetwa,” said Vitori. People who love Mbaqanga music should look forward to Omaskandi show every Monday to Friday 8PM to midnight and for gospel lovers Amaphimbo Amnandi every Saturday from 6AM to 7AM. 