 Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter A TEENAGER from Esigodini who fatally stabbed a patron during a beer drinking spree following a dispute over a missing cellphone, was yesterday sentenced to 15 years in jail. Nqobani Nxumalo (18) of Mbilambowe village fatally stabbed Mthulisi Ncube (19) last November. He was convicted of murder with constructive intent by Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Nokuthula Moyo. In passing the sentence, Justice Moyo condemned Nqobani’s conduct and said the courts have a duty to uphold the sanctity of human life through passing deterrent sentences. “The accused person behaved irrationally on the night in question leading to an unnecessary loss of life. The courts have time and again frowned upon the loss of life through violence,” she said. Justice Moyo said under normal circumstances, the accused person would have been sentenced to a jail term of between 18 to 20 years. “Under normal circumstances, the accused person would have been given a sentence of between 18 to 20 years, but because of his youthfulness and unfortunate background, the court will discount that sentence. Accordingly, you are sentenced to 15 years imprisonment,” ruled the judge. Prosecuting, Mr Thompson Hove said on November 25 last year at around 2.30AM, Nqobani and Mthulisi were part of a group of teenage patrons who were drinking beer in a bar at Mawabeni Business Centre. The deceased, who was in the company of his friend, Babongile Khumalo, met one Ignatius Ncube as they were leaving the bar. The court heard that Ignatius requested to speak to Babongile over his missing cellphone. The two teenagers went outside the bar. “As they were still talking, the accused person and his friend Mehluli Dube approached them. Nqobani was armed with an Okapi knife while Mehluli was holding an empty beer bottle,” said Mr Hove. “The deceased joined in after Babongile reported to him that the accused person wanted to attack him over a missing cellphone belonging to Ignatius.” The court heard that Mehluli appeared as if he wanted to assault the deceased with an empty bottle and Mthulisi took to his heels. Nqobani and Mehluli ran after the deceased and caught up with him. The court heard that Nqobani stabbed Mthulisi once on the chest with a knife and he fled from the scene. According to post mortem results the cause of death was chest stab wound, perforated right lung, haemorrhagic shock and assault.