Dr Joram Gumbo Tendayi Kasamba/Lynee Kumirayi,Chronicle Reporters THE Government has urged motorists to observe traffic rules and regulations during this Easter holiday to curb accidents. The Easter holiday starts tomorrow and ends on Monday and many people will be travelling to different destinations to spend the holiday while Christians travel to different church conventions venues. In a statement, the Minister of Transport and Infrastructural Development, Dr Joram Gumbo said operators of public service vehicles should provide services authorised in terms of their route authority and to adhere to time tables. He said operators should value human life and desist from deploying defective and unroadworthy vehicles. “To ensure that sanity prevails, all defective vehicles will be removed from the roads. I thus urge operators of public service vehicles to provide safe and timeous service which should see everybody being transported to their destination safely. “It is the obligation of the operator to ensure that their buses are not overloaded, drivers are not  under the influence of alcohol and to encourage  their drivers to stick to the regulated speed limits as these are the major causes of fatal accidents,” said Dr Gumbo. He said The Zimbabwe Republic Police and the Vehicle Inspectorate Department will be manning all  the major highways to check on defective vehicles as well as remind motorists to drive safely. Dr Gumbo said his ministry will deal decisively with any operators whose drivers behave in a manner that disregards the sanctity of human life. Meanwhile, Bulawayo Police deputy spokesperson, Assistant Inspector Abednico Ncube has urged motorists to observe traffic rules and regulations. Speaking at a campaign ahead of the launch of the police’s Bulawayo patrol unit and traffic decongestion teams in the city today, Asst Insp Ncube urged  members of the public to use registered public transport vehicles. He said a number of residents have been raped or robbed by drivers of unregistered vehicles like Honda Fits. Motorists, Asst Insp Ncube said, should secure their vehicles and ensure they do not leave valuables that will attract thieves. “As we approach Easter and Independence holidays, we would like to appeal to all motorists to value human lives on the roads and drive safely. Drivers should observe road rules and regulations and ensure that their motor vehicles are roadworthy,” he said. Meanwhile, a portion of Jason Moyo Street between 5th and 6th Avenue will be closed to traffic between 9 AM and 12PM today. The police will be launching the Bulawayo patrol unit and traffic decongestion teams on the spot. — @tenkasamba/@Lyneesboe