Dorothy Masuka Showbiz Reporter THE Victoria Falls International Jazz Festival is set to bounce back this year in the resort town after almost a decade. Event organisers said the three-day jazz festival would run from September 7 to 9 with performances by artistes from countries such as USA, Lesotho, South Africa, Mozambique, Botswana, Nigeria, Zambia, France, Malawi, Kenya and Zimbabwe. But what will set this festival apart from others held in the resort town is the fact that it will be all inclusive. For the past six years, festivals such as the Victoria Falls Carnival have hogged the limelight in the resort town, but unfortunately, this event has been patronised mostly by foreigners as the pricing has been rather too steep for Vic Falls’ residents. As such, with this jazz festival, organisers said the tickets would be affordable as they want the Victoria Falls community to be part of the event. “Unlike other events that are held in the resort town where foreigners and travelling revellers who can afford the pricey gigs tend to benefit more ahead of the locals – this festival will ensure that even folks in Chinotimba get to watch top local and international acts at a fee of as little as $5,” organisers told ZimboJam. The main venue for the festival will be the Elephant Hills Resort. Various concerts and comedy shows will take place within the town of Victoria Falls. An awards ceremony to honour Zimbabwean jazz legends namely, Dorothy Masuka, the late Green Jangano (Harare Mambos) and the late August Musarurwa, the legendary composer of the popular song ‘Skokiaan’, will also be held. “The Victoria Falls International Jazz Festival Awards are a sign of appreciation to the recipients for their dedication, integrity and counsel that has enhanced the Zimbabwean jazz industry the world over. We salute these men and women who paved the way for all the other musicians living and past,” read a statement by organisers. Other than music, there will be a golf tournament that will run concurrently with the festival.