Cont Mhlanga Nyaradzo Bakari, Chronicle Reporter ANALYSTS and religious leaders have condemned Mthwakazi Republic Party (MRP) for disrupting National Peace and Reconciliation Commission (NPRC) stakeholder consultation meetings saying their demonstrations are hindering progress. On Monday, MRP activists disrupted the commission’s meeting in Lupane resulting in a heated exchange of words with traditional leaders, representatives of churches and villagers who had attended the aborted meeting. The group also disrupted the commission’s meetings in Bulawayo and Gwanda, challenging the composition of the NPRC which they say is dominated by Shona-speaking people.In a statement, the Zimbabwe Campaign for Good Governance (ZCGG) condemned the disruptions, saying they were illegal and deplorable. “The disruption of the Lupane meeting by the Mthwakazi Republic Party is not only illegal but criminal. People have the right to protest and not to disrupt. Disruption is a violation of the rule of law and denial of other citizens” rights to be heard. “ZCGG is also concerned that tribal or ethnic issues are raised on the composition of the Commission. We should desist from such actions and statements that hurt our national unity,” reads the statement. ZCGG said it acknowledges the bitter and unpleasant things that happened in the past but, however, said perpetual protests and disruptions are not the answer. “In the name of accountability, rule of law, transparency, human rights and democracy, give the National Peace and Reconciliation Commission its constitutional duty to promote good governance in our country.” Researcher and director of Public Policy Research Institute of Zimbabwe (PPRIZ), Dr Samukele Hadebe said the composition of the NPRC should not give MRP activists the greenlight to disturb meetings. “The issue of composition has been raised but we have to remember that in the selection process, people apply, go through interviews and there are recommendations before appointments are made. “The majority don’t consider that, but what we have to understand is that this is a question the Commission cannot answer for itself. They don’t select themselves so they should be allowed to hold meetings,” he said. Dr Hadebe said while demonstrating is a constitutional right, it should be done in such a way that other people are not disadvantaged the demonstrations.Evangelical Fellowship of Zimbabwe general secretary Pastor Blessing Makwara said it was unfortunate that communities are losing their right to be heard. “While their issues are legitimate, their approach compromises other people’s right to engage the Commission. It’s a sad thing that the meetings had to be aborted. While these activists have the right to be heard, it is also important that they respect the rights of other people,” he said. He said MRP activists should sit in the meetings and express their concerns to the Commission so that it has a clear picture on which areas to focus on. Pastor Makwara said the appointments were done in a transparent manner. “The appointment were done through an open process and recommendations came from the Judiciary Service Commission and other boards. When all this was happening, no one challenged the process so why contest now?” Pastor Makwara urged the Commission to create sub-committees involving local leaders that will mediate between commissioners and local communities. “The Commission should also consider the use of local languages so that communities are able to fully participate in the meetings. They should ensure that there is someone to translate in case the speaker is not good at speaking the local language,” said Pastor Makwara. Veteran artiste Cont Mhlanga said the involvement of all tribes will neutralise the existing tensions. “The Government should consider balancing its Commission such that all tribes are represented because it is largely dominated by Shona-speaking people and this has created marginalisation tensions between the majority and minority groups. There is need to neutralise these tensions by having minority groups represented in the Commission,” said Mr Mhlanga. The analysts urged Government to provide adequate security during the Commission meetings to ensure peace and order. — @NyarieBakie.