Kirsty Coventry Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Sports and Recreation Commission has hailed swimming queen Kirsty Coventry’s election into the International Olympic Committee executive board. Coventry was unanimously elected into the IOC executive board during its 132nd session in PyeongChang, South Korea. Coventry is also the incoming chairperson of the IOC Athletes’ Commission, replacing American Angela Ruggiero. “This is a demonstration of confidence in her leadership, which she has demonstrated beyond the field of play and also excelled beyond doubt as the most decorated African Olympian. Her election into the IOC executive board is not only important to her as an individual, but it has also set our beautiful nation on a higher footing than other nations,” said SRC acting director-general Joseph Muchechetere. He implored other sports administrators to emulate the iconic swimmer by scaling to higher levels of world sports administration. “It is only through such election into influential sport bodies that we would be able to influence decisions at a global level. We can only improve our situation if we are represented at the right level, as our people will also be able to influence certain decisions. “Once again on behalf of the SRC board management and staff; I would like to collectively congratulate Coventry on her election into the IOC executive board. This is indeed a milestone for our sport. May you keep on raising our flag high above other nations,” Muchechetere said. Coventry is touted as Africa’s greatest swimmer and the five-time Olympian won seven medals in two Olympic Games during her career. She won her first gold medal in 2004 in the 200m backstroke and retained gold in the same event in 2008. She also won silver in the 100m backstroke in 2004 and 2008. She also won a silver medal in the 200m and 400m individual medley in the 2008 Olympics. Her single bronze medal came from the 2004 Games in the 200m individual medley. Posting on her Twitter account, an ecstatic Coventry thanked those that voted for her for showing their trust and support for her. @skhumoyo2000