 Sukoluhle Ndlovu, Midlands Correspondent An ex-convict from Gweru allegedly fatally struck his aunt several times on the head and body with an axe following a dispute over high television volume. The incident occurred on Tuesday around 3PM near Apostolic Faith Mission church in Southdowns suburb. Chona Fernandos (34) of 9 Cloverly Crescent in the same area tracked down his aunt Ms Julie Davidets (53) who was on her way to report him to the police following their altercation. He then struck her several times on the head and body and she died on the spot. Midlands acting provincial police spokesperson Assistant Inspector Ethel Mukwende could not be reached for a comment as she was said to be out of office while her mobile phone went unanswered. A Chronicle news crew visited the scene of the murder yesterday around 10AM and noticed that Julie’s blood had been covered with soil while neighbours were showing each other the spot. At 9 Cloverly Crescent, there was only Chona’s mother and sister to Julie, Ms Elizabeth Davidets. In an interview, Ms Davidets said her son and younger sister had a long history of fighting even over petty issues. “These two have a long history of fighting everyday and always over minor things. On Tuesday afternoon, Chona was watching TV and Julie complained that the volume was very high. Julie went on to reduce the volume while Chona was watching a programme resulting in a serious argument and they started swearing at each other,” she said. Ms Davidets said her son was an ex-convict adding that in the heat of the moment, Julie called him a homosexual. “Julie called Chona a jail bird and accused him of being a homosexual since he had served some time in jail. That angered Chona and he took an axe and attempted to strike Julie with it. Chona accused her of treating him differently from the other children,” she said. Ms Davidets said she managed to stop the fight before Julie left the house threatening to report Chona to the police. “While l was still at home, my neighbour Ruth called me and said something bad had happened. She took me to the scene and l saw Julie lying in a pool of blood. She was already dead and my son was nowhere to be found,” she said. Ms Davidets said the matter was reported to the police leading to her son’s arrest.