McClive Phiri Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter BULAWAYO giants Highlanders travel to Masvingo tomorrow for their last preparatory match before the season kicks off next weekend while a number of clubs have opted to give their players a break. Bosso will play former Premiership side Masvingo United who are competing in the Eastern Region Division One Soccer League. This will be Highlanders’ fifth pre-season match, having played to a 0-0 draw with new boys Nichrut, won 2-1 against Chicken Inn in a ZNA Charity Shield semi-final, lost 1-2 to Dynamos in the ZNA Charity Shield final and last weekend they beat Caps United 2-1 in the Vice-President Kembo Mohadi Charity Shield. “We have a friendly game away in Masvingo on Sunday. We have been invited by Masvingo United to feel the travelling field which is good because we will test our continuous work,” said Nhlanhla Dube, the Highlanders chief executive officer. Bosso are likely to travel without winger Godfrey Makaruse and attacking midfielder Nigel Makumbe who are recovering from injuries. New boy McClive Phiri, goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda, defender Peter Muduhwa and striker Newman Sianchali are expected to lead the youthful Bosso outfit tomorrow. Another side that is making the most of the last weekend before the season kick off is Bulawayo Chiefs. The newboys are playing former Premiership side Hwange at the Colliery Stadium this afternoon. Chiefs will be using the match to see how their latest acquisitions, attacking linkman Talent Mandizadza, formerly with ZPC Kariba, the Bantu Rovers duo of midfielder Lucky Ndlela and defender Shadreck Nyahwa are settling. Defending champions FC Platinum are among a number of sides who have decided to give their players a break ahead of the 2018 season kickoff. The platinum miners who had an early season as they participated in the Caf Champions League where they were knocked out in the first round of the preliminary stage open their domestic account with an away fixture against ZPC Kariba. FC Platinum will be without head coach Norman Mapeza who underwent a back surgery last week, leaving Lizwe Sweswe in charge of the champions. “We’ve decided to give our players a break so that they recharge their batteries and be in perfect state to begin the title defence,” said Chido Chizondo, FC Platinum’s spokesperson. The platinum miners’ players to watch this season include goalkeeper Wallace Magalane, reigning Soccer Star of the Year Rodwell Chinyengetere, Soccer Star of the Year runner-up Kevin Moyo, veteran midfielder Winston Mhango as well as forwards Charles Sibanda and Mkhokheli Dube. 2015 champions Chicken Inn who retained the core of their last season squad and added among other players Simon Munawa, who had been offloaded by Highlanders, former Bantu Rovers striker Obriel Chirinda, ex-How Mine defender Kudzi Chideu and re-engaged winger Toto Banda have also given their players a  free weekend. Bulawayo City who made 11 additions to their squad, among them two former Highlanders’ players, utility player Erick Mudzingwa and striker Nhlanhla Ndlovu as well as promising goalkeeper Wellington Muuya are inactive. The other side that is inactive is Chapungu. Shabanie Mine’s training game against Mutare based Manica Diamonds hangs in balance following unavailability of Maglas Stadium which was not approved for Premiership games.— @ZililoR