Oscar Rusenga in Triangle Triangle 0-2 Ngezi TRIANGLE United’s bad start to the season continued yesterday when they slumped to a second straight defeat after going down to visiting Ngezi Platinum in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League tie at Gibbo Stadium. Taurai Mangwiro’s side lost their season opener 1-0 to a stubborn Shabanie Mine side at Mandava last Sunday and this kind of poor start doesn’t make life any easier for the former Monomotapa and Caps United coach. The Sugar Sugar Boys will travel to Highlanders in their next assignment before hosting ZPC Kariba for match day four. With some pressure mounting on the coach, the two fixtures might as well make or break Mangwiro’s future as the Triangle management and supporters are demanding nothing less than a top four finish this season. Ngezi Platinum could have scored a handful in the first half but they were not clinical in front of goals wasting easy scoring opportunities. The visitors, however, surged ahead in the 23rd minute with Clive Augosto beating the badly exposed Triangle goalkeeper Ronald Mudimu. Triangle had their chances in the second half with the most obvious one being a penalty they won in the 73rd minute. A Ngezi defender handled inside the box and referee Arnold Ncube confidently and correctly pointed to the spot but defender Kudzai Chigwida’s poor effort from the penalty was saved by Donovan Bernard. Ngezi then took advantage of Triangle’s lack of concentration and added the second one seven minutes later through substitute Xolisani Moyo and the game was effectively over as a contest. “It was a good win especially when you are playing away from home. We created many chances in the first half and it could have been simply four or five goals in the first half but we were not clinical enough in front goals. “I am happy Donovan came up and saved the penalty and that really helped keep the team in the match,” said Ndiraya. Mangwiro said he was not happy with his side’s bad start to the season which has not matched the kind of activity they showed on the transfer market when bringing in a number of new players. “It is a terrible start to the season after losing to Shabanie in our first match. We had a really bad first half and we were unlucky to concede just one goal, we regrouped in the second half and we had a good game but that penalty we missed gave them confidence. “We really wanted to start the season on a good note but we are on the back-foot. I have been in football for a long time and I know what it means. “We need to make some big decisions if we are to change our fortunes,” Mangwiro said. 