Ms Stella Nkomo Prince Sunduzani, Business Reporter THE 2018 edition of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) is set to be bigger as a result of increased international business interest in the country under the new political dispensation. Registration is already underway for the prime trade showcase, which will be held from 24 to 28 April under the theme, “Sustainable Industrial Development-Inclusive, competitive, collaborative”. ZITF Company marketing and public relations manager, Ms Stella Nkomo, said there has been a lot of hype and optimism from international and local businesses around this year’s edition. “There has been a lot of excitement around this year’s edition of the ZITF. Even when we were in South Africa at an exhibition called ‘Meet with Africa’, we found that there was so much optimism, people want to hear our story, people are keen to come to Zimbabwe,” she said in an interview. “People want to know the opportunities in the country and our word to them was “come to ZITF”, it’s a shop window for you to see all the opportunities.” Ms Nkomo said local interest has also grown evidenced by increasing inquiries on a daily basis from people wanting to participate. Zimbabwe is in the spotlight of optimism on the back of positive sentiments since President Mnangagwa became Head of State last November. He has declared that Zimbabwe is open for business and has been on a drive to re-engage with key stakeholders at home, the international community and the Zimbabwean Diaspora. The new administration has also made investment friendly pronouncements, backing them with relaxation of investment policies. Ms Nkomo said her company was ready for the 59th edition of ZITF which will be held at the traditional ZITF grounds in Bulawayo. Last Thursday, the ZITF held an exhibitor master class seminar in Bulawayo as part of preparations for this year’s edition of the multi-sectorial business expo. The exhibitor master class is a stakeholder responsibility programme by the ZITF meant to ensure that all participants in the company’s trade shows derive maximum value from their exhibition investment. — @PrinceNkosy102