Morris Mpala, MoB Capital Ltd THE name “MoB” is derived from an old Nambya folklore in which two folk heroes MoBe (Dinde) and BoBo (KaDobe, Jambezi) were idolised for their business approach to cattle and small livestock ranching in a very dry region of Hwange. To the community they became the icons of rising above challenges and making the best out of a seemingly hopeless situation. In this small village west of Zimbabwe your wealth was measured by the number of mango trees in your yard so the MoBe/BoBo (MoB) phenomenon was total financial emancipation to be copied and replicated in the entire region. This became a symbol of financial freedom. A poverty resistance movement was, thus, established. The corporate colours Black symbolises the Afro-centric ownership structure of the corporation. It is an all African owned business with an African approach to solving community challenges. Canary Yellow/Gold: The canary gold symbolises all that glitters is gold. “Igolide liligugu” gold is precious. Golden solutions for specific challenges for the community is what MoB capital provides to those seeking financial solutions with the organisation. Yellow is associated with honey. Extracting honey could be dangerous but sweet is the honey when one is successful so are community challenges, which are painful but solutions usher in a sense of belonging and purpose to the betterment of the respective society. Red: Like a scout’s motto to be prepared for all sorts of challenges that the community has. It’s a warning of the uniqueness of challenges that communities experience and there is no one size fits all solution. White: It’s an image of starting anew. Once a business solution is derived we believe the community starts afresh on a clean slate and strives for a community of milk and honey, which is symbolised by gold and white in a predominantly Afro-centric society. The logo and symbols The Black Diamond, which is rare and the diamond shape at all angles is the strength of MoB Capital’s financial solutions to the communities. Black diamonds are rare so is the uniqueness of MoB Capital financial diagnosis and prescriptions. We pride ourselves in robust and smart solutions tailor-made for a respective challenge in the community. The angle that the diamond is cut at is the acuteness of precision and in depth understanding of clients’ financial challenges as accorded by MoB Capital. The building blocks is the solid foundation that MoB Capital impresses on any business/individual that will be touched by its tentacles of unique provision of financial solutions. “somi serem” Spanish for we are and we will be. This is MoB Capital’s total confirmation on our commitment to providing relevant financial solutions first time, all the times, now and in the future for the communities. The middle white orifice in the earthly perceived stronger rare black diamond is a little prayer that puts the Almighty God above everything else including MoB Capital’s optimum financial solutions. It is the humbling fact that we are mortal human beings hence the faith in the Almighty. Team Money This is the term used for all MoB Capital employees. MoB Capital Care (foundation) is the vehicle by MoB Capital channels its philanthropy. It is the little charity contribution to the community with the help of MoB Capital, employees and its associates. It is the social responsibility programme to various communities that we operate in as a way of giving back to society. Beneficiaries will be chosen by MoB Capital board. Services for smart, fresh and innovated financial solutions MoB Capital offers the following services based on a one shop philosophy guided by a process of research and development. These are personal loans, school fees, home improvements, cross-border trade/flea markets, hospital fees, vehicle purchases, agriculture needs, hospitality/holidaying, business loans, working capital and expenditure, agro-dealership, pay day loans, emergency cash till pay day (7 days or less, micro loans to salarised clients, venture capital, greenfield loans, debt finance, order finance, debt factoring. We also offer trade finance, bills discounting, structured finance, debt engineering/management, advisory services, financial advisory, investment appraisal, accounting services, bookkeeping, tax consultancy, QPD’s, business proposals, annual returns, cash flow projects, insurance (underwritten by Old mutual Pvt Limited), motor policy, personal protection, accidents, public liability policy, life policies, motivation and debt counselling, SMEs transformation and training, monitoring and evaluation, SMEs linkages. Other services include Zesa Prepaid electricity (Cash Power), luxury coach booking (Intercape Pathfinder), grocery credit facility available at selected Choppies Stores in Zimbabwe, MNOs such as NetCash, Econet, Telecash, One Wallet, bulk airtime for Bulawayo vendors, Money Transfer with Express Financial Services in countries such as Botswana, Gambia, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania and Zimbabwe. Corporate governance MoB Capital upholds the highest standards and practices of internal good corporate governance, transcending throughout its structures and operational policies. It has the following four committees: credit and risk committees, complaints/corporate governance committees, audit committees and human resources committees. Environmental and Social Responsibility In the quest for responsible investment as in long term value creation in terms of economic value, broader values of fairness, justice and environmental sustainability MoB Capital has the following initiatives in place – energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emission staff turnover, training and qualification, maturity of workforce, absenteeism rate, corruption, litigation risks and revenues from new products and culture. That is MoB Capital’s One Stop Shop for Financial solutions IF YOU LIVE IN BYO PLEASE CONSERVE WATER IF YOU LIVE IN ZIMBABWE PLEASE USE ELECTRICITY SPARINGLY: SOS (SWITCH OFF SWITCHES) IF YOU LIVE ON PLANET EARTH PLEASE PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT Morris Mpala is the managing director of MoB Capital Limited, a Bulawayo-headquartered micro-finance institution with footprint across the country.