President Emmerson Mnangagwa Nduduzo Tshuma, Political Editor THE ruling Zanu-PF has officially started its campaign in what is a journey to certain victory as the party faces no credible opponents ahead of this year’s elections. Having gotten rid of the divisive G40 cabal fronted by former First Lady Mrs Grace Mugabe, the party managed to reboot and emerged stronger in unity. The ascendancy of President Emmerson Mnangagwa to the helm of both party and State  has ignited hope among Zimbabweans for a turnaround championed by the ruling party. The most notable, but by no measure strong, opponent that President Mnangagwa faces in this year’s polls is MDC-T and MDC Alliance leader, Mr Nelson Chamisa. With the divisions rocking the MDC-T and the break away by one of the party’s deputies Dr Thokozani Khupe and her faction to coalesce with National People’s Party (NPP) led by Dr Joice Mujuru, it will take a miracle greater than all those recorded in the Bible for them to shake Zanu-PF. In the absence of Morgan Tsvangirai, the party’s founding leader, who died in February, the MDC-T will not garner the votes that it used to in the past, numbers which were still not enough to depose the ruling Zanu-PF. Mr Chamisa, sounding more like a student leader than a presidential aspirant, falls far below his predecessor and former boss Tsvangirai. From misleading his supporters that they had been promised $15 billion by US President Donald Trump should they win this year’s elections, a claim refuted by the US, Mr Chamisa, in typical student politics grand standing has promised to bring bullet trains should his part romp to victory. With Mr Chamisa, being the most prominent among minnows, it then becomes clear why the thought of a Zanu-PF electoral defeat can only reside in minds in great need of attention. Besides Mr Chamisa’s college theatrics, the mood in the international arena doesn’t favour the MDC-T and the rest of the opposition parties. This has been evidenced by the overwhelming support that President Mnangagwa’s administration has received since he was inaugurated as the Head of State in November last year. Even the opposition is feeling the heat and recently complained bitterly over what they called a rush by foreign envoys to endorse President Mnangagwa’s administration. If things were to happen their way, the support that the President Mnangagwa administration is getting should come after the holding of elections. Read deeply, however, this is an indication that the opposition is isolated, perhaps the worst kind of isolation since the formation of the united MDC in 1999 as their traditional donors have shifted attention and chosen to associate themselves with the new administration under President Mnangagwa. Since his inauguration last November, President Mnangagwa and his administration have been aggressively engaging the international community and re-assuring key business stakeholders at home. Recent reports indicate already the country has booked in excess of $3 billion investment proposals with more positive signals evidenced by the influx of foreign business delegations seeking to explore economic opportunities. Addressing a Zanu-PF rally in Bubi District in Matabeleland North, the President said the $3 billion figure in terms of investment in the country was modest as more investors were ready to pour money into Zimbabwe. “Many companies, global players are sitting on the fence, they are waiting for our elections, once elections have been done, I have no doubt, many players would jump onto the wagon so that they could participate,” said President Mnangagwa. Besides re-engaging the international community, President Mnangagwa has assured Zimbabweans and the world that his Government will create an environment for the holding of free, credible and non violent elections. He has also invited regional and international observers, some who have already visited the country for pre poll observation, to witness the truth in his assurances of democratic elections. Unlike the MDC-T which has engaged in a number of violent incidents including attempts to burn senior officials inside huts and others suffering various degrees of injury, the ruling party has conducted itself in a peaceful and orderly manner as the government makes great strides in achieving an economic turnaround yearned for by Zimbabweans. “I have no doubt Zanu-PF will win this election and continue to rule until eternity. So, we are saying to our people we need to grow our economy, we need to have policies in place that create jobs for our youths, policies that ensure food security.” “We will win these elections hands down, clean win, hands down win. All we need is to register as voters,” reiterated President Mnangagwa last week. What Zanu-PF needs is to conduct its primary elections, as per President Mnangagwa’s counsel, in an orderly manner that would not result in unnecessary divisions. “As we prepare for elections please, people must be free to choose their preferred candidate. No imposition, no imposition, no imposition. “You are free, in each constituency in your districts to elect your preferred representatives in Parliament,” said President Mnangagwa at the Bubi rally. “We agreed at Politburo that during primary elections, where there are two or more candidates in one constituency, they will campaign at the same gathering. Each candidate will be allocated time to address the gathering and the one who manages to articulate what they have to offer the people, will be chosen.” What Zanu-PF needs to do now is not to rest on its laurels despite the obvious fact that it will romp to victory in this year’s elections. The party must use this opportunity to garner the highest number of votes that will not only silence the opposition but convince everyone locally and abroad that Zanu-PF was, is and will always be the party of choice among Zimbabweans.