 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter NEWLY promoted Zifa Southern Region Division One Plumtree-based club Mainline FC are racing against time to finish renovating Dingumuzi Stadium which they want to be their home ground. The Zifa Southern Region’s grounds committee made up of former referees Sabelo Sibindi and Brighton Malandule as well as former secretary general Stanley Ntenezi will do their inspections of stadia to be used for Division One from March 27 to April 2. The league will kick off on April 7. The inspection team will among other things look at goalposts measurements, functional dressing rooms for players and referees, perimeter fence and markings. Clistone Bazaya, Mainline FC secretary said they are rounding up work at Dingumuzi. “We’re working round the clock to make sure that by the time the inspection team comes here, the stadium is ready. Most work has been done and there are few touch-ups left in the dressing rooms. We hope to be done with the dressing rooms and the perimeter fence which should not be more than 1.5m by Friday,” said Bazaya. He said the Plumtree community has warmed up to the prospect of having Division One football in the border town. The last time Dingumuzi hosted Division One games was in 2013 when Bulawayo Chiefs won the championship at the adopted home ground with the hope of enticing Plumtree the community to support their project. Chiefs went on to trade their franchise with Bantu Rovers after failing to get Plumtree business community and the local council’s support. Bazaya said they will have an official launch of the club on April 1 when they will unveil their squad as well as their sponsors. Plumtree-based businessman Mkhulunyelwa Nkomo and South Africa-based Jonathan Ndlovu who is into construction, are bankrolling the side which dreams to be in the Premiership in 2020. “We are going to have a function on the 1st of April where we will unveil our sponsors, the executive committee, technical team and players. We will also unveil the team colours. “Our mission is to survive relegation in our first season, then fight for promotion next season,” said Bazaya. Charlton Gumede who coached defunct Plumtree sides NRZ Tigers and Kombani FC when they were in Division Two is in charge of Mainline. The have among other players former Bulawayo Chiefs midfielder Trevor Fundani Nkomo, ex-Amagagasi midfielder Douglas Maguta, last season’s senior players Victor Nkomo, Thembani Tine and defender Pritchard Masawi to bank on in their maiden season. @ZililoR