Gqom Life artistes Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent AFTER holding two shows in Bulawayo’s leafy suburbs to promote their debut album, music group Black Diamond say it is time they take their “Gqom Life” act to the ghetto with the staging of a show at Mqombothi Sports Bar in Nkulumane 5. Dubbed “Gqom Life Stokvel”, the Kasi show will be held on May 26 from midday until late. Gqom Life Stokvel follows Gqom Life Gardens that was held at Queens Sports Club at the beginning of this month that saw  more than 20 artistes performing. Gqom life is all about having clean fun with friends and dancing to Gqom music and the group is trying to popularise this lifestyle in Bulawayo through the hosting of these events. Despite having a low turnout, Black Diamond’s Sugar Shane said they would not give up adding that they hoped to get a better crowd in the ghetto. “The last two events have been held at Nesbitt Castle and Queens Sports Club respectively. We made a conscious decision to host the Gqom Life Stokvel at Mqombothi Sports Bar in Nkulumane because that’s where the people are and we want to make our music and events more accessible to everyone in Bulawayo.” He said the Gqom Life Gardens were a learning curve for them as the events showed that there was a ready market for local music. “Gqom Life Gardens is certainly making an impact as the events are an excellent opportunity for us as Black Diamond to showcase the Gqom Life album and create a platform for other Bulawayo artistes. “Other promoters are also starting to pay attention to the Gqom Life movement and our last event was further proof that promoting events with 100 percent local artistes is viable,” said Sugar Shane. Black Diamond has partnered renowned DJ Sweeto for the Mqombothi show. “The plan is to erect a stage outside the bottle store at Mqombothi Sports Bar, barricade the surrounding areas and create an open space for revellers to enjoy,” said Sugar Shane. The line up of artistes will be finalised soon with DJ Sweeto assuring show attendees that it will be another blockbuster event.