 Showbiz Reporter SOME 200 schools from across the country are participating in the new season of Old Mutual Schools Quiz at the weekend with organisers anticipating an exciting battle of the minds. Takudzwa Tsikwa, Old Mutual Schools Quiz spokesperson, said there were new entrants who will battle it out at the provincial finals while others were tried and tested horses. Schools including Mandwandwe, Sikhulile, Eveline, Northlea, Townsend, Gifford and Montrose from Bulawayo will battle it out at Montrose Girls High School on Saturday with the top four set to represent the province at the national finals. They will each have four participants. Midlands will host its finals at Guinea Fowl. “The top four schools from the provincial knockouts will proceed to the national finals which are scheduled for 25 May at the Harare International Conference Centre. “The winning quiz team at provincial level will walk away with a laptop to be used by the team for future research activities, while trophies for the top three schools will be awarded,” Tsikwa said. Tsikwa said the competition this year will be exciting as the final quiz will not be pre-recorded, but will be broadcast live on ZBC and on social media platforms. Last year’s quiz was won by Manicaland’s Hartzell High School. “People need to diarise 25 May – Africa Day as it will be the day where they’ll watch live, which quiz team knows more about Africa than the others. “The focus is to test knowledge on all things about Africa. We want to empower participants with awareness of their immediate environment. Of course financial literacy workshops through Old Mutual’s On The Money programme is an added advantage for participants,” Tsikwa said. He said there was an overwhelming response from schools across all 10 provinces. Since 1983 when Old Mutual launched the quiz programme, focus was always on high schools. However, primary schools can now participate as a measure of empowerment and recognition of their ability. Zimbabwe is only third to India and the United Kingdom in terms of school quiz participation. Tsikwa said with primary schools being invited, they believe Zimbabwe would lead the world as far as quiz participation is concerned.