 Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau AS the impasse between the Zimbabwe Netball Association and the newly-formed Rainbow Amateur Netball League continues, the Sports Commission have indicated they are going to intervene and ensure both parties find common ground. The splinter league is looking at operating as an affiliate of Zina, running separately from the Super League controlled by the national association. The Rainbow Amateur Netball League have said they are coming in to complement the netball mother body’s efforts to grow the sport countrywide. But Zina are questioning the motive behind the formation of this league. Sports Commission acting director-general Joseph Muchechetere yesterday said they were going to meet with both parties to address the issue that might negatively affect the sport. “The issue is about Zina accusing the other party that they are not engaging them in good faith and also the other party are saying Zina are not engaging them in good faith. ‘’This is basically to do with whether the proposed structure should exist within the netball circles. “We are handling the issue now. Both of them wrote to the SRC seeking SRC’s intervention. We have written back to both of them, we are meeting them separately soon to try and hear their side of the story individually, then at the appropriate time we bring them together. “We will meet them so that we assist to solve their problems. It’s going to be soon, I think next week we are definitely going to meet them,” Muchechetere said. Speaking to our sister paper, The Herald on Wednesday, Rainbow Amateur League spokesperson Moses Gukurume said, although the national association were reluctant to acknowledge them, they were hoping to start their games soon and have engaged the Sports Commission to assist. “We have also approached SRC, we submitted our letter for them to mediate between us and Zimbabwe Netball Association. “We are waiting for their response but after all we are going to start games most likely after the 24th of March. We sent letters to prospective clubs,” said Gukurume. Meanwhile, the Super League is expected to take off tomorrow. This year the league will see an increased number in terms of participants as 22 clubs are expected to compete compared to last year’s 18. Correctional Services Queens are the reigning champions after finishing tops last season.