Taurai Mangwiro Mukudzei Chingwere in Zvishavane Shabanie Mine 1-0 Triangle United SHABANIE MINE put behind a shambolic pre-season to record an important Castle Lager Premiership soccer season day one victory over Triangle United at Mandava yesterday. McDonald  Makuwe, son to former Dynamos striker Joseph Makuwe, dazzled for the hosts and David Temwanjira scored the only goal of the match to ensure maximum points for the Chinda Boys. Triangle, who had a poor season last year, looked the better side but they just came short against the hosts. But latest recruit Makuwe, who was lured from Harare to Zvishavane by Shabanie Mine coach Takesure Chiragwi, was outstanding in Chinda Boys’ season-opener, controlling the midfield department with aplomb. Ten minutes after the breather, the 17-year-old Makuwe spotted Temwanjira, pushing the ball into his path which the striker placed beyond the reach of diving Triangle goalminder, Ronald Mudimu. The match had started brightly giving both sets of supporters more than they had bargained for with both goalkeepers being called into action in the first five minutes. Ralph Kawondera could have put Triangle ahead in the opening five minutes but shot wide with the miners goalie exposed. Triangle coach, Taurai Mangwiro, conceded that their opponents were a better side but said his side has a lot of potential as the season progresses. “We came here and wanted to collect maximum points but congratulations to Shabanie Mine they played well but we had done well to survive the scary moments of the first half. “It is a disappointment we lost our opener but from the manner in which we fought we are in for a good season. “If we are going to play the way we played today, we will not be losing on the road as the season progresses. We now have to regroup and focus on future matches,” said Mangwiro. Shabanie Mine coach, Chiragwi, was happy after collecting the full set of points but felt his charges should have won by a wider margin. “We are very happy to win our first game of the season. It was not easy but we fought hard and managed to defend the goal we scored. “We could have killed off the game in the first half after we got numerous chances but that is part of the game. “I am also happy that they (the players) managed to apply what we do at training in a real game situation,”  Chiragwi said. Teams Shabanie Mine: P Moyo, L Manyende, A Maliselo, B Mukundu, J Nyabinde, T Chigede, T Murumi (W Kahuni 83rd min), D Makuwe (O Mupumha 75th min), T Mupumha (E Kawayuja 90th min), D Temwanjira, A Kambanje Triangle United: R Mudimu, D Phiri (C Dzingai 83rd min), R Mhlanga, G Zhokinyu, K Chigwida, T Mavhunga, R Kawondera, P Bamusi, C Dhuwa, P Manhanga (C Denias 51st min), L Nhamo