Tadious Manyepo, Harare Bureau YOUNG talented Zimbabwean football, basketball and handball players have been presented with a rare opportunity to leap towards dreamland when they take part in a 10-day international tournament in Barcelona, Spain, at the end of this month. The contest runs from March 28 to April 6. Only the boys’ Under-16 and Under-20 will represent the country in the triple sport codes jamboree after the local event co-ordinators failed to get enough sponsorship to include the girls for the trip. The tournament, which has been put together by a Spanish organisation, SpainSport, will see Zimbabwe battling it out for honours against powerhouses Germany, Italy, France and the United States. The teams, whose players were picked from academies and schools across the country, will go into camp on March 15 awaiting their departure for the European country a week later. One of the local event co-ordinators, Tendai “T-Buns” Zhakata, confirmed the trip. “Zimbabwe will send the Under-16 and Under-20 boys’ handball, basketball and football players for an international tournament which is scheduled to run between March 28 and April 6 in Barcelona, Spain. “We would have wanted to make the trip along with girls’ teams for all the sport codes but we can’t since we are facing some serious financial challenges. “In fact, parents for the players involved are the ones who have decided to take it upon themselves to bankroll the trip. “This opportunity is very big for the young players who could be spotted by professional European teams. “We selected the players from different teams and academies across the country starting last year. We believe they are the best for the age-groups and their performance at the global stage is expected to bear testimony to that. “I am very confident that the teams will give a good account of themselves at the event. I am also certain that some of the players will be scouted by big academies and teams in Europe,” he said. Handball teams will be under the tutelage of Abednego Mashuka while basketball will be co-coached by the experienced duo of Laddie Munetsi and Erinos Kasuware. Ex-Black Rhinos player Stephen “Bhotsengwa” Jonhera will be in charge of the soccer team. Last year, Zhakata organised a tour for junior rugby teams in France which saw a number of players including the red-hot prop Neil Mawere, winning scholarships.