The cast of Raisedon Baya’s Fragile Leonard Ncube/Bongani Ndlovu/ Mthabisi Tshuma, Showbiz Reporters ZIMBABWE joined the rest of the world in celebrating International World Theatre Day through various activities amid calls to lobby government for appropriate theatre space. In Matabeleland North the celebrations were held at Dikili High School in Tsholotsho on Thursday where about 15 schools and six arts and music groups participated. The day was punctuated by music and dance, poetry and other activities while Tsholotsho West MP Zenzo Sibanda was keynote speaker. Some of the participating schools were Bubude, hosts Dikili, Dogwe, Mathula, Shaba (primary), Bubude, Dikili, Mathula and Tshabanda (secondary). Traditional groups included Amazing Arts Academy from Bulawayo, Abazukulu Arts, Izangoma Dance, Shaba Arts Project, Shangano and Vulindlela Theatre Company as well as others from Binga and Hwange. In a speech read on his behalf by acting provincial arts manager Philani Dube, Minister of Sport, Arts and Recreation Raymond Kazembe said by joining the world in observing the day, Zimbabwe affirms the country’s responsibility to international days as proclaimed by the United Nations. “Theatre remains an integral component of any nation’s existence hence it is important that Zimbabwe commemorates World Theatre Day which falls on March 27. Theatre remains one of the ways through which Zimbabwe carries out an introspection examination of her flaws and paradoxies, as it interrogates life and invokes peace in the community,” said the Minister. He said the day is for all stakeholders to champion the cause for theatre. “My message to you all is, apply your voices in lobbying Government for appropriate theatre space in the country while reaching out to all communities of this nation in spreading theatre. Nations of the world, Zimbabwe included are encouraged to use theatre as a tool for transforming the world through infor-tainment and edutainment theatrical performance. Theatre is a way of expressing self,” said the Minister. He said Zimbabwe theatre can be promoted through social media, cinema and live performances as well as use of in-school and out-school education programmes. The day was preceded by ASSITEJ World Day for children and Young People whose theme was “Take a child to theatre today” as a way of supporting the call for children in theatre. In Victoria Falls residents were also treated to a memorable night on Friday when some private players brought Black Panther to the screen as part of celebrating the day. In Bulawayo the celebrations started off on Thursday at the Bulawayo Theatre with a premiere of the Raisedon Baya penned and directed play Fragile in the afternoon and the evening. The festivities continued until Friday with the play being shown again at the same venue drawing a sizeable crowd. Fragile is a sad tale of rape, homophobia and xenophobia and the play captured the hearts of many in the auditorium. In Matabeleland South pupils from primary and secondary schools commemorated World Poetry and Theatre Day in style through poetry and dramas on HIV and Aids. The celebrations were held on Friday at Jahunda Primary School in Gwanda by the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (NACZ) in partnership with the National Aids Council (NAC) and Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education. A Grade 3 pupil from Gala primary school left the audience asking for more when she recited a poem on Aids. More than 200 pupils from all the seven districts attended the event. @mthabisi_mthire. @ncubeleon @bonganinkunzi