Dr Obert Mpofu Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent GOVERNMENT yesterday warned Mthwakazi Republic Party activists that they face arrest if they continue disrupting national programmes as their actions violate other people’s rights to be heard. The activists, who have been disrupting National Peace and Reconciliation Commission (NPRC) consultative meetings, plunged the Bulawayo city centre into chaos last week after the High Court ruled against the coronation of a Ndebele King. The activists have disrupted NPRC meetings in Bulawayo and Lupane in Matabeleland North, making it impossible for the commission to consult the public on national healing and reconciliation. In an interview yesterday, the Minister of Home Affairs and Culture, Dr Obert Mpofu, said Government would no longer tolerate disruptions of its scheduled programmes. “We want to caution them against disrupting Government programmes. All organisations, institutions and other groupings should desist from interfering with scheduled Government programmes and other programmes organised by other institutions as has been the case with the disruptions of NPRC hearings by some elements that are bent on destabilising Government,” he said. “Government will no longer tolerate any disruptions and those who disrupt its programmes will be dealt with in terms of the laws of the country.” Dr Mpofu said the Government was taking the stance following complaints by members of the public who feel that the pressure group’s activities are violating their rights to be heard. He said going forward, police would arrest those bent on causing chaos. “This comes following reports by members of the public who have raised concern that they have not been allowed to make their contributions on national programmes because of some people who have disrupted meetings. That will no longer be tolerated and the police are now going to arrest them,” Dr Mpofu said. Church leaders and members of the public have condemned MRP activists for throwing spanners into the works of the NPRC. — @nqotshili