Mrs Abigail Shonhiwa Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter THE Government is putting in place various support mechanisms and policies aimed at promoting the growth of Small to Medium Enterprises (SMEs) across the country, an official said yesterday. Officially opening the second CBZ International SMEs Indaba in Bulawayo, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Enterprise Development, Mrs Abigail Shonhiwa, said the Government recognises the critical role SMEs play in economic growth. “It is no secret that SMEs are sustaining many economies worldwide and for us here in Zimbabwe the sector has shown resilience and held forth in sustaining livelihoods and the economy at a time when the bigger corporates were in distress and others closed their doors due to economic challenges that ravaged our nation in the past years,” she said. Mrs Shonhiwa said the SMEs sector is doing well in sustaining economic growth and development through job creation. “Government through my ministry is putting in place policies that will ensure support is given to SMEs to contribute to economic growth. “The policies will speak to business support services that will drive the growth of the sector. “These services include among others entrepreneurship development and training, business linkages, cluster development, technology transfer, provision of appropriate workspace, market development and trade promotion, creation of a conducive legal framework and access to finance,” she said. President Emmerson Mnangagwa, Mrs Shonhiwa said, is on record as saying if Zimbabwe is to succeed in the global economy, empowering local entrepreneurs was critical as well as fostering innovation at all levels. She commended CBZ Bank for organising the International SMEs Indaba saying the event creates a platform for micro and medium enterprises to express their capabilities. “This event provides a unique platform for creating awareness on what we are doing as SMEs in Zimbabwe and the region as well as sharing experiences on the challenges faced by SMEs and proffer solutions to these challenges. “I welcome efforts by CBZ Bank which allows expression by SMEs of their capabilities. I would also want to thank the organisers of this event, CBZ Bank, for promoting the SMEs business. The fact that you have made the International SMEs Indaba a calendar event in your organisation demonstrates to what extent you take SMEs as serious business enterprises,” said Mrs Shonhiwa, adding that the Government through her ministry was committed to working closely with the financial institution in promoting SMEs. This year’s International SMEs Indaba is running under the theme, “Enhancing SMEs growth through smart partnership.” @okazunga