Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent FOREIGN Affairs and Finance ministers from the Sadc region will converge in South Africa for a two day meeting to review the implementation of regional priority projects. South Africa’s Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Dr Lindiwe Sisulu will host the regional meeting on Sunday in her capacity as the new chairperson of the Sadc council of Ministers. In a statement yesterday, the regional bloc said the council of ministers will oversee the implementation of regionally adopted projects and strategies. “The Council of Ministers oversees the functioning and development of Sadc, and ensures that policies and decisions are implemented. The Council consists of Ministers from each of the 16 Member States; usually from the Ministries responsible for Foreign Affairs and International Relations, Economic Planning or Finance, and meets twice a year,” reads Sadc’s statement. Zimbabwe is expected to be represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade Lieutenant-General Sibusiso Moyo (Retired) and the Minister of Finance and Economic Development Cde Patrick Chinamasa. The meeting comes at a time when the country is intensifying its re-engagement with the international community, breaking away from the isolationist policies pursued by former President Robert Mugabe. The regional body said the Ministers’ meeting will also see the region approving the 2018/2019 budget. “During the two days, the Ministers will discuss issues of regional importance; consider a number of strategic documents and receive reports on the implementation of the priority areas of the revised Regional Indicative Strategic Development Plan 2015-2020 (RISDP), and the Sadc Industrialisation Strategy and Roadmap 2015-2063. Council will also review implementation of the August 2017 Council and Summit decisions and approve the Sadc Secretariat’s budget for the year 2018/2019,” said Sadc. RISDP ultimate objective is to accelerate poverty eradication through integration of member states while the Sadc Industrialisation Strategy and Roadmap is premised on three pillars of Industrialisation, competitiveness and Regional Integration. To pave way for the ministers’ meeting, the regional standing committee of senior officials will hold a meeting tomorrow and on Friday the Finance Committee will hold a meeting. @nqotshili