 THE ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier 2018 will be televised to fans for the first-time ever across five continents in 200 territories, the International Cricket Council (ICC) said. “Ten matches will be broadcast around the globe, significantly building on the four live-streamed match coverage previously seen at the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier in 2014 as the ICC continues to build its long-term partnerships with various broadcast partners to widen the reach of the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier,” the ICC statement read. Fans can also watch online or via their mobile devices with the majority of broadcast partners simulcasting live ICC event coverage. Commentary of the 19 camera coverage will come from a stellar seven person commentary panel of Ian Bishop, Mpumelelo Mbangwa, Lisa Sthalekar, Deep Dasgupta, Fazeer Mohammed, Mark Butcher and Dirk Nannes. Reflecting on the same, West Indies legend Bishop said: “The phenomenal rise of Afghanistan as a cricketing stronghold in such a short time serves as a cautionary tale to anyone who isn’t aware of how fast and how skilfully the game is growing at all levels. With this in mind I am excited to be a part of the broadcast panel that will be on hand to keep you updated as to which two nations will be standing on the pedestal of success on March 25 as they tread the path to leave their mark on the ICC Cricket World Cup 2019.” Lisa Sthalekar, on the other hand, said, “The ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier is a very important tournament in the cricketing calendar as it is the last Chance for teams to qualify for next year’s Cricket World Cup in England and Wales. What that means is that there will be some delightful cricket that will be played with new heroes emerging. I am eager to be part of the broadcast team and I’m looking forward to all the excitement it will bring.” To provide more to viewers and bring them closer to the action, there will be a 15-minute pre-game build-up, which will set the scene for the match and will include the toss and the pitch report. A 10-minute post-game wrap-up will include the Player of the Match presentation and a chat with the two captains. – Cricket Country 