Mpilo Central Hospital clinical director Dr Solwayo Ngwenya Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE strike by doctors at Government hospitals continued yesterday forcing major hospitals such as Mpilo Central Hospital in Bulawayo to attend to emergencies only. The doctors downed tools last Thursday despite a plea by Health and Child Care Minister Dr David Parirenyatwa for them not to go on strike. Mpilo Central Hospital’s, clinical director Dr Solwayo Ngwenya said yesterday that only critical departments were operational. He said as a result of the strike, he had taken over some of the duties performed by doctors. Dr Ngwenya said due to shortage of staff, the hospital has been forced to close some departments and was only attending to emergencies. “I have taken over the duties of the doctors and right now I’m at the maternity ward attending to patients. The strike has seriously inconvenienced the public. “This has seriously affected the hospital operations. We’re attending to emergencies only and only critical departments which include the casualty, maternity and theatre are functional,” he said. Dr Ngwenya said patients were having a difficult time due to shortage of staff as a result of the strike. “I’m therefore appealing to the doctors to heed Dr Parirenyatwa’s directive to return to work so that we open all departments. No life has been lost so far but we fear if the strike drags on, people will die,” he said. When a Chronicle news crew visited the institution yesterday, scores of patients were waiting to be attended to at the casualty department. Relatives of patients who are admitted to the hospital said as a result of the strike patients were not getting the services they require. Mr Josiah Ncube from Nkayi said his father who fractured his leg last week was yet to be attended to. “We brought our father here last week after he was transferred from Nkayi District Hospital. He had a fracture on one of his legs after a traffic accident. “Only nurses are attending to him as he waits for the doctor,” said Mr Ncube. — @pamelashumba1