Professor Callistus Ndlovu Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent ZANU-PF Bulawayo province has resolved to conduct district elections in its City Centre district after discovering that its structures are in shambles. The elections will be held despite a Politburo resolution that the party should suspend all restructuring programmes. Addressing a Bulawayo Provincial Coordinating Committee meeting last Friday, Zanu-PF provincial chairman Professor Callistus Ndlovu said there are problems in the City Centre district and elections would solve the challenges which have taken too long to be addressed. “So I will suggest that we should take into account that the City Centre problem is not new, it has always been there and has been eluding people. I’m afraid of talking about dead people but when the late Chiyangwa ( Joe) was the district chairperson for the City Centre, there were many parallel structures and we want to address that,” said Prof Ndlovu. He said the elections should be conducted this week. “As early as next week action must be taken to have elections for the City Centre district. People will be given a chance to contest. We can’t be patching up things,” said Prof Ndlovu. He said the party will also be weeding out people who claim to belong to the district yet they do not reside in the Central Business District. Prof Ndlovu said some of the problems in the district are caused by some provincial leaders who have vested interest in the district’s operations. During the meeting, it was also revealed that the Zanu-PF commissariat department had dissolved another district in Emganwini suburb following reports that its leadership was leaking the party’s programmes to the G40 cabal. Prof Ndlovu said following investigations, the district’s chairperson was hauled before a disciplinary hearing where he was cautioned. Last month, the party’s secretary for administration Dr Obert Mpofu said the party had suspended district and provincial elections as they could cause confusion ahead of the national election. — @nqotshili