Michael Moyo shares a lighter moment with his headmaster Khumbulani Sibanda at White City Stadium yesterday Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter Renowned athletics coach and sports science lecturer at the National University of Science and Technology (Nust), Bhekuzulu Khumalo, has adopted Somvubu High School athlete Michael Moyo and registered him for today’s 21KM PPC Marathon event in the City. Khumalo spotted the promising athlete at the just ended National Association of Secondary School Heads (Nash) track and field athletics event at White City Stadium in which he came a commendable second in the 10 000M event in a time of 31,54 minutes having led the better part of the race. Moyo was pipped to the finishing line by Mashonaland West’s Dennis Gono who clocked 31,45 seconds but his time was an improvement from the time that he clocked at the Matabeleland North Nash provincial finals which were held at Mavela High School as part of the preparations for the nationals. “He could have easily won gold but just stumbled but I was impressed with his strides and I strongly believe with expert training and exposure he can be an asset for the nation. I have since taken him on board and registered him for the PPC marathon in consultation of course with his parents and school authorities,” said Khumalo. Somvubu High School headmaster, Khumbulani Sibanda, expressed gratitude to Khumalo’s gesture and said hard work was paying off for his athlete. “The boy has worked hard to reach where he is but he could not do well until we decided to invest in one seasoned long distance athlete Phathisa Ngwabi who assisted him and other distance runners when we were preparing for our provincial competition. “The boy improved in both speed and technique but unfortunately when he was preparing for his national competition Ngwabi was not there to push him on. I am glad he is now under the tutelage of an experienced coach who is taking him to the PPC marathon,” said Sibanda, the man responsible for nurturing former Highlanders striking sensation, Prince Dube, who is now based in South Africa. — @skhumoyo2000.