Simon Khaya Moyo Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent ZANU-PF yesterday warned the party’s aspiring candidates to stop conducting unsanctioned primary election campaigns with immediate effect. In a statement, Zanu-PF Secretary for Information and Publicity Cde Simon Khaya Moyo said the party’s Politburo deliberated on the matter on Wednesday and urged party members to follow procedures. “The time for campaigns has not yet started. The National Political Commissar, Lieutenant-General Engelbert Rugeje (Retired), who is the chairman of the Elections Commission, will communicate to all the provinces when campaigns will start. Those who are already campaigning must cease such efforts forthwith,” said Cde Khaya-Moyo. The party has already urged those who want to participate in its primary elections to forward their names to its provincial structures for verification. Zanu-PF said it will also not tolerate violence during its campaigns and those who will violate the law will be arrested. Cde Khaya-Moyo said when the primary elections programme is rolled out, aspiring candidates will be given a chance to address the electorate at the same time. “As regards to primary elections, those aspiring candidates in a given constituency will campaign together in all meetings and be allocated time to speak to the electorate regarding what they have to offer in terms of service delivery to the people,” he said. Cde Khaya-Moyo said the Politburo also resolved to regularise some illegal settlements after realising that destruction of homes will affect home seekers. “Those who have settled in unplanned places or who were given by land barons who are fleecing the people, Government is regularising the situation by using institutions that are responsible for housing such as the Infrastructural Development Bank of Zimbabwe, Urban Development Corporation (UDICORP) and local authorities. Care is being given to ensure that our people who were genuinely seeking shelter are protected,” he said. Cde Khaya-Moyo said in rural areas, illegal settlers who have been given notices to vacate state land should do so after harvesting their crops. He said Government was in the meantime looking for alternative land to relocate the illegal settlers. — @nqotshili