Lovemore Zigara in Gweru ZIFA Central Soccer League (CSL) newcomers Sheasham announced their arrival with a bang by making a number of acquisitions ahead of the new season. The CSL season is set to kick off on March 17 and the debutants are leaving no stone unturned in building a strong side to challenge for honours. Sheasham have signed players with Premiership experience such as former Dynamos and Triangle midfielder Stephen Alimenda, the ex-Shabanie Mine duo of Victor Twaliki and Michael Mageja as well as Pride Ziwengwa, who was with Bantu Rovers last season. The Gweru-based outfit also acquired former Caps United skipper Edmore Chafungamoyo, Vimbai Madamombe, who once turned out for Whawha, Simba Manuella and Brian Sarupinda, the son of Dynamos legend, Obadiah Sarupinda. Former Ajax Cape Town and How Mine striker Simba Sithole is also trying his luck with the hope of being signed, while there are reports that former FC Platinum forward Tarisai Rukanda could be headed for Sheasham. Bankrolled by Gweru businessman Clever Mandaza, the club is arguably the league’s moneybags this season and will be among the favourites to earn the region’s sole promotional ticket to the Premiership. However, club chairman Malvern Paradza said their hope was to learn the ropes in the first season and gun for the championship next year. “This is a new project which started in 2015 and for us to be in the CSL is a dream come true. However, as an institution we have to be realistic and have a long term vision. Ours is to be in Division One for at least two seasons and then battle it out for promotion next year,” said Paradza. “Our target for this year is to finish at least among the top four and then gun for the championship. We are trying to build a strong squad which will make it easier for us to gun for the championship,” said Paradza, who previously held various portfolios at the now defunct Hardbody, Whawha and Chapungu, among other clubs. Sheasham is under the tutelage of former Gweru City coach Jeremiah Neganda and they’ve played a number of friendlies, including against Premiership debutants Bulawayo Chiefs, which the Gweru team won 2-1. On Sunday the club unveiled its 2018 season kit during a friendly game against Whawha, which the CSL debutants won 1-0. — @lavuzigara1