Current and former Highlanders FC players Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter IN line with Fifa Club Licensing requirements, Bulawayo giants, Highlanders, are in the hunt for a qualified security officer as well as a media and communications officer. Highlanders scored a first by becoming the first club in Zimbabwe to be certified under the Fifa Club Licensing system and they have followed this up by becoming one of the first clubs to advertise for positions to fulfil the requirements. According to an advert flighted by the club yesterday, interested qualified persons have been invited to send in their CVs before March 21, 2018. Highlanders’ chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube said the club was working flat out to meet all club licensing requirements. “The positions were not vacant; in terms of communications, we had an intern doing the job for us, but as you know the club licensing system requires these offices be filled by qualified personal. We are trying to do the correct things administratively and our vision of corporatising our brand is alive,” said Dube. “We need to upgrade, hence we are now in search of qualified personnel. We are of course awake to the reality that much more needs to be done for us to become a fully-fledged commercial entity that can be a trendsetter and a club of choice for football and non-football professionals, fans, partners and sponsors,” he said. The security officer will act as a liaison between venue safety and security management. He will act as safety and security point of contact for teams, the match commissioner, referees, police and private security, fire and ambulance services, stadium security and any other related matters. The person will also ensure that the away team supporters have adequate security and home team supporters behave in the best possible manner. They will oversee all safety and security issues. The media and communications officer will be tasked with developing and executing an adequate and integral communication plan for internal and external communications, develop activities that lead to fundraising and brand awareness. The person will also monitor the overall image of the institution as well as evaluate, create and update communication materials, coordinate and facilitate on-going internal and external public relations and communication activities. Meanwhile, in an endeavour to safeguard the credibility and integrity of topflight football, the Premier Soccer League will hold a two-day workshop for governors and chief executive officers of clubs in Harare starting today. @innocentskizoe