 Oliver Kazunga, Senior Reporter THE Postal and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe (Potraz) has taken the Government’s e-learning drive to rural schools across the country with the regulator donating 40 laptops to institutions in Umzingwane district last Saturday. The state-of-the-art laptops were handed over to nine secondary schools during a road show on consumer education and awareness by Potraz in partnership with Radio Zimbabwe. Globally, governments are now using Information Communication Technology (ICT) to promote national development as the world is fast becoming an information society. Mvuthu, Sikhoveni, Nsezi, Shale, Irisvale, Sihlengeni, Silobi, Dula and Mbalabala Secondary Schools are the latest learning institutions in Umzingwane district, Matabeleland South to receive the state-of-the-art laptops from Potraz. Of late, Potraz has been going around the country on consumer education and awareness campaign as well as donating modern ICTs to learning institutions. In an interview after the handing over of state-of-the-art ICT equipment, Potraz executive officer in charge of research Mr Phibion Chaibva said: “We are here as part of our role as Potraz to promote the availability of ICTs to the generality of Zimbabweans. “The Government has rolled out a programme for e-learning and Potraz is coming in to complement the e-learning initiative by distributing computers to various schools. “For instance, today you have seen yourself the distribution of 40 laptops to schools in Umzingwane district and this is not the first and last time.” Mr Chaibva said the schools that have received the laptops should ensure the donated ICT equipment was connected so that schoolchildren have access to Internet and aid e-learning. In separate interviews some of the headmasters whose schools received the laptops commended the gesture by Potraz saying this will go a long way in aiding e-learning at their respective schools. Consumer rights include the right to privacy; make informed decisions during consumption of services or products and the right to end a contract in the event that they are not happy with the product or service provided. Mr Chaibva said it was imperative for telecommunication service providers to adhere to best regulatory practices or licensing conditions. In January, Potraz directed NetOne to compensate subscribers who lost airtime on the OneFusion package due to a faulty billing system. The affected consumers have since been compensated. @okazunga