Biggie Zuze Eddie Chikamhi, Harare Bureau DYNAMOS assistant coach Biggie Zuze believes it could be too early to start pressing the panic button in the wake of the simmering discontent among the supporters who caused a scene at Rufaro following the sensational collapse in the match against Shabanie Mine on Sunday. A section of supporters on Sunday protested against the team when they gave away a three-goal advantage in the last 22 minutes of the game to settle for 3-3 against Shabanie Mine. The Glamour Boys were hoping to atone for the 1-0 defeat they suffered at Chicken Inn in their season-opener but a brace from Shabanie’s David Temwanjira and another strike from former DeMbare man, Richard Kawondera shattered their dreams. And Dynamos, like they have done in the past few seasons, are likely to face a difficult take-off again this year, with more difficult assignments awaiting them during the upcoming Easter weekend. Dynamos are scheduled to travel to Ngezi Platinum on Thursday and return home to host Highlanders at Rufaro on Easter Monday. But the two points they dropped in their last match at home has brought the Harare giants under the spotlight, especially the quality of the personnel at their disposal. “I think we don’t have to press the panic button now. We have the team and they are playing good football. Only for the lack of communication in defending but I think we will recover. We just have to regroup as a team. We know a lot of things will be talked about but as long as the team remains intact I think we will recover because we have only played two games. You cannot win the league after two games; you cannot get relegated when you have just played two games. We are still shaping the team with the new youngsters coming in. “We are also happy with the way some players like Raphael Manuvire performed. So we have got more positives than negatives. “Whether you are winning or you are losing the pressure is always there. If you win 1-0 some people will say we should have won 3-0. It’s always like that,” said Zuze.