President Emmerson Mnangagwa Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa has pledged to work towards the reopening of Ekusileni Hospital in Bulawayo in the shortest possible time. The health institution which was closed a few months after its opening in 2001 as its equipment was deemed obsolete, is the brain child of the late Father Zimbabwe Dr Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo. The President made the undertaking after meeting Zanu-PF National Youth Assembly on Wednesday in Harare. In an interview yesterday, Zanu-PF Bulawayo provincial Youth League chairperson Cde Khumbulani Mpofu said the province tabled the Ekusileni Hospital issue before the President as they view it as priority project for Bulawayo.  “During the briefing provinces were presenting their projects that they want to see completed. As a province we presented about the need to reopen Ekusileni Hospital, which needs to be resuscitated. It’s a great institution which resembles our late Father Zimbabwe Joshua Nkomo,” said Cde Mpofu. “So we requested that its reopening should be prioritised. And his response was very positive. He promised to work closely with the Minister of Health and Child Care Dr Parirenyatwa (David) to ensure that its revival is looked into as a matter of urgency.” He said as the provincial Youth League executive, they are confident that President Mnangagwa will fulfil his promises. “If you check, there are some issues that youths addressed during the meeting and some of them have already been addressed. For example, the Government has reduced fees that are paid by university students on industrial attachment by 40 percent, as per our plea as youth leaders. The President is a man of action and we trust that his word will transform into action very soon,” he said. Cde Mpofu said the Youth League also pleaded with the President to ensure that they have their own Ministry. “The youths also requested that the Ministry of Women and Youth Affairs should be separated because there was a feeling that the currently women affairs issues are prioritised over matters affecting the youth,” said Cde Mpofu. — @nqotshili