Cde Abednico Ncube Thupeyo Muleya, Beitbridge Bureau THE Minister of State for Matabeleland South Provincial Affairs, Cde Abednico Ncube, has urged Zimbabweans in the diaspora to consider pooling resources together to invest back home. Cde Ncube said there are a lot of investment opportunities in the country waiting to be exploited. The Minister was speaking during the burial of the late liberation war hero, Cde Masilu Moyo, in Dendele area of Beitbridge on Saturday. Cde Moyo (68) died on March 6 in Gwanda following a short illness. “The government is currently implementing a national rebranding process where we are saying Zimbabwe is open for business. Equally Matabeleland South is taking part in the provincial rebranding process as well,” said Cde Ncube. “I call upon investors outside Zimbabwe to partake in this process. This province prides itself in the highest number of people who live in the diaspora. Investment is not only for foreigners, but also for our children who live outside our borders. “It is important for the sons and daughters of Zimbabwe who have made it in the diaspora to consider investing back home and feed into our national economic development”. He said it was very important for people to work together with a shared vision to foster national economic development. The Minister said independence brought equal educational opportunities for all the country’s citizens and as such people must take advantage of that to develop a strong national human capital. “Our children can study in whatever field they desire. We need to take advantage of this and encourage our children to go to school and take up subjects like engineering and medicine. The government has already availed loan facilities for our tertiary students, so let us make use of such programmes,” said Cde Ncube. He described the late Cde Moyo as a principled man and fearless soldier who remained committed to the economic emancipation of the country up to the time of his death. “Let it be everyone’s responsibility to educate our youths about the importance of our history so that they work hard to preserve our independence,” said Cde Ncube. The late liberation ware hero was born in Dendele on June 5, 1950. He joined the liberation struggle in 1977 and stayed at Nampundu and Mahemba camps in Zambia. He went to Libya for military training in 1978 up to 1981 and was later attested into the Zimbabwe National Army and was demobilised in 1984. He is survived by eight children.