Zero Suppliers Bookshop director Clemence Kunzekweguta (centre) celebrates with Nkayi District team — the winners of Matabeleland North Provincial District National Association of Primary School Heads (Naph) athletics competition held at Nkayi High on Wednesday (Picture by Nkosizile Ndlovu) Nkosilathi Sibanda, Sports Correspondent NKAYI District team dominated this year’s Matabeleland North primary schools athletics competitions as they amassed a whopping 65 medals to be crowned champions at Nkayi High School on Wednesday. It was a home ground toast for the hosts who made sure they bag a medal in all events in what seemed like a one-sided show. For the triumph, the district lifted the newly carved shield that was sponsored by Zero Suppliers Bookshop. The Bulawayo-based company also rewarded the athletes with branded medals. Team Lupane who came second was the only district that posed real competition to the victors but falling far short with 37 medals. On third position was Binga District whose performance improved a lot this time around. In previous competitions Binga used to anchor the medals table. This year, athletes from Bubi District did not do well, getting only seven medals, finishing at the bottom of the table. The district needs to work hard to match the standard ofother schools in the province. Last year’s champions Tsholotsho slumped to fourth position. Despite the disappointment, the district dominated the long jump and shot put events with eight of its athletes selected to the provincial team. The thrill of the day came with the track events, in particular the 100m, 400m and the relays. While few young athletes crossed the line in good times, it was Nkayi’s Mandlenkosi Ngwenya who posted the best times. He finished the 100M in 13.06 seconds and took another gold medal as he touched home in 59.69 seconds in the 400M run. Ngwenya took home four gold honours. The guest of honour, Clemence Kunzekweguta, encouraged the provincial team to improve performance as they brace for competition at the national showcase. “The team needs to be wary that at the national competitions the stage is different. More needs to done in training the youngsters to ensure that they perform better. “Indeed Matabeleland North has talent and I urge the coaches to sharpen the athletes, give them advice that will be helpful as they compete further,” said Kunzekweguta, who is also the managing director at Zero Suppliers bookshop. The competitions were wound up in a day, although they were scheduled to carry over up to Thursday. This did not bode well with other districts, as coaches were quick to spell out fatigue as the reason for their athletes’ dismal performance. This, however, was quelled down by the enthusiasm of the young athletes who pulled out a show and ignited excitement to the handful spectators. Nkayi has the most athletes that made it into the provincial team that heads to White City Stadium for the national competitions next week. Medals Table: Gold        Silver      Bronze Nkayi         30           22           13 Lupane        14           11           12 Binga        9              10           9 Tsholotsho        8              9              12 Hwange        7               12           10 Bubi        7               11           16 Umguza        2               1              4