Former President Robert Mugabe Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa yesterday said the nation has moved on and former President Robert Mugabe who constitutionally resigned last November is entitled to his opinions like any other private citizen. The President made the remarks following Mr Mugabe’s claims in interviews with a group of both local and foreign journalists at his Harare residence on Thursday that President Mnangagwa came to power illegally. Mr Mugabe, who is widely blamed for plunging the country into economic and social hardships due to some of his policies, resigned as the country’s President on November 21 last year after Parliament had initiated a process to impeach him, a few days after Zanu-PF had recalled him as the party’s President and First Secretary. Days before he resigned, Mr Mugabe had said the army’s actions were within the confines of the law. In a statement yesterday, the Office of the President and Cabinet said Mr Mugabe is free to make public comments just like any private citizen. “President ED has noted the remarks made to the media by the former President Cde Robert Gabriel Mugabe. On 21, November 2017, former President Mugabe tendered his resignation in terms of Section 96 Sub Section 1, of the Constitution of Zimbabwe. He is entitled to express himself freely as is the case for any private citizen,” read the statement. It said Government has turned its focus towards conducting a credible election which would be important for the country’s economic reforms. “The nation has moved on. Our focus at this time shall remain on preparing for the free and fair, credible elections in 2018. This is a key step in the immense task at hand, which is to lift our people from the effects of years of severe economic regression and international isolation,” said the statement. It said Government will continues to honour all its obligations towards the former President’s welfare and benefits, as provided for in the Constitution of Zimbabwe.—@nqotshili