Bulawayo City’s Tatenda Tavengwa (right) goes airborne as he defends the ball away from Bulawayo Chiefs’ Talent Mandizadza at Barbourfields Stadium in Bulawayo yesterday Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter Bulawayo City 1-1 Bulawayo Chiefs NEWLY promoted Bulawayo Chiefs had to come from behind to force a draw and take their unbeaten run to three games as they shared spoils with Bulawayo City at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday. City were the first to threaten their opponents’ goal through an Ishmael Wadi free kick which he shot straight into the hands of Chiefs goalkeeper Kelvin Nyoni in the second minute. This was after Timothy January had been brought down at the edge of the box. The tempo of the game cooled down after five minutes with the goalmouth action seen in the last five minutes of the half when Chiefs midfielder perfect Chikwende’s shot was tipped for a corner by an alert City goalkeeper Takudzwa Ndoro. The upright denied Wadi a goal in the 41st minute. Two minutes after the break January fired City into the lead with a perfect long range shot that Nyoni aided into the back of the net as he tried to punch the ball for corner. Chiefs had a 60th minute penalty appeal turned down by referee Martin Chivandire. Chiefs striker Farai Matare had been brought down by Zibusiso Sibanda in the box. Chivandire stunned City in the 73rd minute when he gave Chiefs a penalty, alleging that Matare had been brought down by Sibanda. It was a soft penalty, more of a compensatory decision by the referee. Arthur Musiiwa beat Ndoro with a well taken spot kick. Wadi missed a sitter in the 88th minute after being set through by Mgcini Sibanda with only Nyoni to beat. If there was an accolade for the miss of the game, then it would easily have been collected by Wadi, a reliable scorer for City. City coach Darlington Dodo said: “I’m happy with the way we played though I feel we should have won this game. We created some chances in the first half and even in the second half we could have won 2-1. We will continue working hard.” Chiefs coach Garthly Chipuka was content with the point. “We are still adjusting to the demands of the Premiership. A point is better than nothing and we will take the positives from the game as we work towards the Chapungu game,” said Chipuka. — @ZililoR.