 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Premier Soccer League will retender the media audio-visual media rights after bidders failed to satisfy the requirements and expectations of the league. A number of companies, including the national broadcaster ZBC submitted their tender documents to the PSL before the February 7 deadline. Following the expiry of a six-year broadcasting rights deal with SuperSport at the end of the 2017 season, the PSL begun a search for a new partner to beam the topflight for the next five years. The PSL opened the floor for bidders to submit their tenders in a transparent way. The PSL yesterday announced that the bidders had failed to meet their expectations. “The Premier Soccer League Media Audio-Visual Tender Adjudication Committee has met and decided on the Media Rights tenders submitted by various media organisations. “The PSL would like to advise that it has accepted no bid at all as the submitted tenders did not meet the mandatory requirements and expectations of the PSL. “The league has advised all the bidders and officially closed the tender process. “The PSL will possibly invite media rights tenders in the very near future,” reads a PSL statement. The latest development means that broadcasting of the 2018 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League matches on both, radio and TV will not be there until the league finalises the process. During the week the PSL quashed messages circulating on social media platforms that state broadcaster ZBC was going to beam the opening weekend’s matches. Instead, the league encouraged fans to go and watch their teams play at the venues where the games have been fixtured. Besides ZBC, some reports claimed a Switzerland company Infront Sports and Media was interested in the deal. Dr Dish, whose marriage with Econet Media and Kwese TV collapsed in spectacular fashion, are also reportedly interested in securing the PSL television rights deal as part of their programming with new foreign investors. SuperSport were the first to win the rights after their historic marriage with the PSL in 2012. Since then, the league’s stock has been rising, with clubs hoping for a bigger and better package from which they can reap more rewards. With SuperSport on board, clubs cashed in around $22 000 per season, something that cushioned their coffers. Some argued that the money paid to clubs through the SuperSport deal was peanuts, but it was better than starting the season without knowing whether the league will be able to get a better deal. A positive from the SuperSport deal was that some clubs managed to market their players to foreign teams, mostly South Africa Premiership sides, which followed action on TV. Meanwhile, the season kicks off today with exciting matches lined up. Six games will be played today across the country, with Bulawayo hosting the high profile Chicken Inn and Dynamos clash at Barbourfields Stadium this afternoon. The game can be easily classified as a “blockbuster” as both teams are ambitious and are keen on a perfect start as they seek to challenge for the title. Chicken Inn last won the championship in 2015, a year after Dynamos had bagged their fourth consecutive title. Across town at Luveve Stadium, Bulawayo City will play host to Chapungu with championship favourites  Ngezi Platinum Stars facing newboys Herentals at Baobab. FC Platinum start their title defence with an away game against ZPC Kariba at the National Sports Stadium while new entrants Bulawayo Chiefs lock horns with Yadah FC whose pre-season preparations have been covered with secrecy. Tomorrow Caps United welcome Harare City at the National Sports Stadium with Shabanie Mine and Triangle squaring off at Mandava. Fixtures Today: Bulawayo City v Chapungu (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum v Herentals (Baobab), ZPC Kariba v FC Platinum (National Sports Stadium), Nichrut v Mutare City (Mandava), Yadah FC v Bulawayo Chiefs (Rufaro), Chicken Inn v Dynamos (Barbourfields) Tomorrow: Highlanders v Black Rhinos (Barbourfields), Shabanie Mine v Triangle United (Mandava), Caps United v Harare City (National Sports Stadium). — @ZililoR