 Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau THE Zimbabwe Netball Association Super League 2018 season took off on a disappointing note with only four of the nine matches that were scheduled for Saturday taking place. The league, which is set to run until December, was supposed to feature 11 games but two encounters —Falcon Queens and Correctional Services Queens as well as the one between ZDF Queens and Harare City — were postponed ahead of the weekend leaving nine matches on the Saturday roster. But most of the teams failed to fulfil their opening games for the season. However, Zina fixtures secretary Agnes Chiroodza was quick to defend the clubs as she said this was something not new. “They communicated with us, their main reason was their funds were not released on time. So, definitely, we are going to have more games this weekend. “The game between Mutare City and Chinhoyi will be played this Wednesday. “Usually things start to shape up in the second week,” said Chiroodza. Mutare City were initially scheduled to play Destiny Queens but the latter, who were promoted this year, decided to pull out of the league. The netball mother body will be hoping for a better response from the clubs when they enter Week Two. In the matches played on Saturday, Support Unit beat newcomers Eiffel Flats 54-24 at Support Unit while Shamva Mine defeated ZRP PPU 28-25 in a close contest in Shamva. Newly-promoted Lupane had a good start when they beat ZRP Jaguars 31-25 at Raylton Sports Club in Bulawayo. Beta Holdings lost 39-43 to Ngezi Platinum in their backyard at Cornway College. Despite the defeat, Beta Holdings technical head, Obert Njiri, said they awere optimistic of positive results as the season progresses. “The game was good, it was our opening match for 2018 season. I think the girls played well especially in the last quarter . . . I think as the season progresses they will do better. “We are expecting to finish among the best five this year,” said Njiri. This year the league has 22 clubs competing but it remains to be seen if all of them will be able to last the distance considering that in the previous seasons some teams have had to withdraw due to financial constraints. Results Support Unit 54, Eiffel Flats (Riozim) 24; Beta Holdings 39, Ngezi Platinum Queens 43; Shamva Mine 28, ZRP PPU 25; Lupane 31, ZRP Jaguars 25.