Dr Joram Gumbo Business Reporter GOVERNMENT is seeking an alternative person to replace National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ) general manager, Engineer Lewis Mukwada, as a board member of the rival Beitbridge Bulawayo Railway (BBR) Company. This follows concerns that Eng Mukwada’s role as BBR board member was conflicted since the two firms are competitors. A report to that effect has since been tabled before Parliament by the Portfolio Committee on Transport and Infrastructural Development. Transport and Infrastructure Development Minister Dr Joram Gumbo has, however, defended Eng Mukwada saying it had been standard practice to have representatives from NRZ on the BBR board. He told Parliament on Tuesday that Eng Mukwada sat on the BBR board to protect Government’s interests. “Mr Speaker Sir, the committee pointed out that allowing the general manager of the NRZ board to sit on the BBR board, a competitor in the rail industry, is against sound corporate practice. “From the time that BBR was incorporated in 1997, the ministry has appointed the office of the NRZ general manager, one other member from NRZ senior management and an official from the ministry to represent NRZ and Government interests on the BBR board,” said Dr Gumbo. He said the objective was to have representatives who are able to engage representatives from the other shareholders in the discussions and debate in the board. “We have noted concerns of the committee regarding this issue and have directed the board to find an alternative to protect the interests of the NRZ on the board,” said Dr Gumbo. Presenting its findings to Parliament last year, the committee called on Eng Mukwada to step down from the BBR board saying he was conflicted. “Engineer Mukwada, who is now substantive general manager of NRZ, should immediately cease sitting on the BBR board, a competitor in the rail industry, as this is bound to compromise his service delivery at NRZ, and it is also a poor corporate practice,” read the recommendations by the committee. Meanwhile, Minister Gumbo said following recommendations made by the committee to develop an industrial policy, the NRZ board has requested management to come up with a human resource strategy and policy that will incorporate an industrial relations policy. “I am pleased to report, that the NRZ board’s major issue that was straining the industrial relations environment was the irregular payment of salaries and this has since been addressed. Management has from 2017, managed to stabilise the payment of salaries,” said Dr Gumbo. He said his ministry was seized with the matter of the recapitalisation of the NRZ and results of the efforts should begin to show soon. 