Gonyeti Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent UMAHLEKISA Comedy Club — a platform for comedians to showcase their talent — has been steadily growing in Bulawayo and today, it will celebrate its 5th anniversary. For its celebrations, Umahlekisa has gone back to the formative days where the godfather of local comedy Edgar Langelveldt from Harare would perform. Today, it will be a gathering of award-winning comedians Mandla Da Comedian, Clive Chigubu and Ntando Van Moyo (Umahlekisa founder) who will join Langelveldt on stage at The Vista in Bulawayo. Over the years, Umahlekisa has nurtured the likes of Mandla Da Comedian who last month won the Outstanding Comedian gong at the National Arts Merit Awards and Lady Dee who was once touted as the only female comedian in the country. Comedy nights organised by Umahlekisa during festivals held in Bulawayo have become crowd pullers. Also, most comedians from around the country who have visited the city have graced the Umahlekisa platform and popularised it. Harare’s fast rising comedian, Doc Vikela, who has performed on the Umahlekisa stage before, said Umahlekisa was one of the platforms that gave him the opportunity to ply his craft. He was part of the first show held at Jimmy’s Backyard Restaurant (ex Papas) in 2013 at which Van Moyo, Simba the Comic King, Long John and Tat also performed. “Umahlekisa is the first comedy club that gave me a platform to perform for the Bulawayo audience. I remember we performed with Ntando. Though there were not many people, the vibe was amazing. “I commend the Bulawayo team for doing this and staying resolute for all these years,” said Doc Vikela. Another popular Harare stand-up comedian, Gonyeti, who two years ago was given the opportunity to perform in Bulawayo during Intwasa Arts Festival Comedy Night organised by Umahlekisa, said: “I’d like to congratulate Umahlekisa Comedy Club and I hope that they keep growing and expanding. We’re looking forward to more years of comedy.” Van Moyo, who is hard at work selling tickets for the anniversary celebrations, said they had learnt a lot in the last five years. “We’ve had some of our comedians getting recognition in the form of awards as well as getting a new pool of comedians. We’ve also managed to get a few corporate partnerships which has been quite encouraging,” Van Moyo said. Looking into the future, he said they want to take Umahlekisa global. “The next five years is to put our comedy on an international platform and TV and radio. We’ve already recorded stuff that’s aimed at promoting our platform. “We also want to venture more into arts education and have humour trainings for public speakers,” he said.