Sikandar Raza Senior Sports Reporters ZIMBABWE’S most consistent performer in the doomed 2019 International Cricket Council World Cup Qualifier, Sikandar Raza, has apologised to the nation for their failure to qualify for the finals after suffering a painful three-run defeat to the United Arab Emirates on Thursday. The Chevrons were knocked out on the Duckworth/Lewis method in the rain affected match at Harare Sports Club to leave the entire nation in total disbelief Zimbabwe were left to chase a revised target of 230 runs in 40 overs but it was not to be and yesterday, Raza took to his official Twitter account to apologise to his fellow countrymen, describing the loss as a bitter pill to swallow. “One of the ‘toughest’ pills to swallow for all of us together and the tears we shed yesterday describes the pain we all felt for everyone and for those who supported us,” twitted Raza. He said the fans and indeed their families deserved much better than they gave on Thursday. “Our fans and families and friends deserved better and all I can say is that we are truly very sorry,” said Raza. West Indies and Afghanistan made it through to the finals leaving the Chevrons to fight for another day in future qualifiers. Meanwhile, Zimbabwean batsman Sean Williams, together with United Arab Emirates captain Rohan Mustafa have both been fined 15 percent of their match fees for breaching Level one of the International Cricket Council Code of Conduct during their Thursday’s Super Six match in the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier at Harare Sports Club on Thursday. According to the world cricket governing body, Mustafa was found to have breached Article 2.1.7 of the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and Player Support Personnel which relates to “using language, actions or gestures which disparage or which could provoke an aggressive reaction from a batsman upon his/her dismissal during an International Match”, while Williams was found guilty of violating Article 2.1.4, which deals with “using language or a gesture that is obscene, offensive or insulting during an International Match”. In addition to this, one demerit point each has been added to the disciplinary records of the two players. The incident happened on the final ball of the 37th over when the two players exchanged inappropriate language after Rohan dismissed Williams. The left hander made a run a ball 80 but his dismissal saw Zimbabwe suffer an embarrassing three-run defeat to UAE and ended their hopes of qualifying for next year’s World Cup. Both the players admitted the offences and accepted the sanctions proposed by David Jukes and as such there was no need for a formal hearing. The charges were levelled by on-field umpires Ahsan Raza and Gregory Brathwaite, third umpire Joel Wilson and fourth umpire Simon Fry. Sikhumbuzo Moyo/Mehluli Sibanda — @skhumoyo2000, @Mdawini_29