 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter PREMIERSHIP coaches from Bulawayo are ready to roll following the release of fixtures on Wednesday. The 2018 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season will kick-off next weekend. Bulawayo was left with four Premiership teams following the collapse of How Mine last week. Bulawayo giants Highlanders, who are rebuilding, 2015 champions Chicken Inn, Bulawayo City and newly promoted Bulawayo Chiefs carry the city’s hopes in the topflight. Bosso reunited with their legendary former player Madinda Ndlovu, while Chicken Inn have also reunited with their 2015 championship winning coach, Joey Antipas. Bulawayo City, who survived relegation by a whisker, have new coach Darlington Dodo and Bulawayo Chiefs registered Garthly Chipuka as their head coach, with Thulani Sibanda, who has been preparing the team for their maiden season, reassigned to another position in the technical department. Chronicle Sport spoke with the coaches about the fixtures and their expectations for the 2018 season. Madinda Ndlovu (Highlanders) Madinda “Khathazile” Ndlovu “We don’t train for one team, but for the entire competition. Fixtures have to be fulfilled; it’s a marathon, at one stage you get tired, others overtake you and you recover then overtake them. We are all competing for the same thing, the championship. Let’s see how the season unfolds.” Despite leading an operation aimed at restoring the club’s lost glory by promoting juniors, Ndlovu said they also want to win silverware. “We’re talking about restoring legacy at Highlanders, but we also want to win things. We want to win silverware. Whatever comes our way within the season we will compete for and we will be competing to win. But we don’t have pressure to say it’s a must win league and cups, we don’t want to put pressure on the youngsters.” Players to watch: Highlanders promoted most players from their junior teams and shopped around for a few. Right-back McClive Phiri could prove to be Bosso’s find of the season alongside playmaker Nigel Mukombe, who is on a season’s loan from FC Platinum. Experienced forward Newman Sianchali will be expected to guide the young forwards. Goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda and defender Peter Muduhwa’s experience should also come in handy. Joey Antipas (Chicken Inn) Joey Antipas “Opening the fixture against a side like Dynamos is always tough. We would have preferred different opponents, but we can’t run away from DeMbare. We are ready to roll. We’re almost there in terms of fitness levels and the boys are almost there in terms of match fitness and we are now waiting for the games. In terms of targets, it’s still early. We will be taking each game as it comes and I’m sure if we play good football and get positive results we should be there with the top teams.” Chicken Inn’s season opener is a repeat of the 2016 season during which they dismantled the Harare Glamour Boys 3-0. The Gamecocks have played low-key pre-season games. They played two high profile matches during the pre-season, beating Zanaco of Zambia 2-1 and losing by the same score line to Highlanders in a ZNA Charity Shield semi-final. Players to watch: The Gamecocks retained the bulk of their 2017 squad. They were quick to sign Simon Munawa, who had been offloaded by Highlanders, former Bantu Rovers striker Obriel Chirinda, ex-How Mine defender Kudzi Chideu and re-engaged winger Toto Banda, who had crossed the floor to How Mine. Veteran Clemence Matawu, Moses Jackson and goalkeeper Elvis Chipezeze will be key to their campaign. Darlington Dodo (Bulawayo City) Darlington Dodo “The release of fixtures makes it easy to plan. Our preparations are at an advanced stage and we are now polishing up on some loopholes. Our pre-season training has been going on well and we’ve beefed up our squad with experienced players as we try to come up with a side that will effectively compete in the league. We don’t want to fight relegation and the players are aware of this. The new players will give us another dimension to our play.” Players to watch: City made 11 additions to their squad, snapping up two former Highlanders’ players, utility player Erick Mudzingwa and striker Nhlanhla Ndlovu, promising goalkeeper Wellington Muuya, who joined City from Bantu Rovers, and will fight for the jersey with new boy Takudzwa Ndoro. The former Tsholotsho FC trio of striker Tatenda Tavengwa, attacking midfielders Lucky Nyathi and Ayanda Ncube as well as former Hwange attacking midfielder Justin Kaunda also joined the City project. Injury-prone striker Mgcini Sibanda completes the list of players at the local authority bankrolled club. Thulani Sibanda (Bulawayo Chiefs) Thulani Sibanda “We’re ready for our maiden season. All teams in the league are ready to fight and I think we’ve tough opening fixtures, which should test our character. We’re in the league to compete and try to avoid relegation. The opening five games will be key in shaping our season.” Players to watch: Chiefs retained the bulk of players that won them promotion to the Premiership by clinching the Southern Region Division One league. Goalkeeper Kelvin Nyoni, defender Moses Majika, attacking midfielders Arthur Musiiwa and Perfect Chikwende as well as young striker Farawo Matare will be crucial to Chiefs’ survival. They have added former Njube Sundowns, Shabanie Mine and Tsholotsho FC striker Dylan Chivandire as well as ex-FC Platinum and Caps United defender Last Sithole. Attacking linkman Talent Mandizadza, formerly with ZPC Kariba, the Bantu Rovers duo of midfielder Lucky Ndlela and defender Shadreck Nyahwa are some of their players with Premiership experience who should help them navigate the course. — @ZililoR