 Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter INVESTING in women economic empowerment leads to gender equality, poverty eradication and inclusive economic growth which are critical for the development of the nation, Vice President Kembo Mohadi said yesterday. VP Mohadi who was speaking during the International Day of Women’s Day commemorations held at Gwelutshena Primary School in Nkayi, said it is time to move from rhetoric to action in terms of women empowerment. International Women’s Day (IWD) is celebrated on March 8 every year. This year’s commemorations were held under the theme, “Transforming Women’s lives through Economic Empowerment” The Vice President said the theme was in line with President Mnangagwa’s vision to turn around the economy for the better. “Investing in women’s economic empowerment sets a direct path towards gender equality, poverty eradication and inclusive economic growth. Women make enormous contribution to economies, whether in businesses, on farms as entrepreneurs or employees, or by doing unpaid care work. It is certainly not new that the economy is poorer without the participation of the majority of its citizenry who happen to be women,” said VP Mohadi. He said no meaningful contribution can be achieved without the involvement of women. “Indeed it is now common knowledge that the development process and any efforts to end poverty cannot be achieved if women are kept at the periphery of programmes and processes meant to grow the economies and turn the world into a place for the entire human race. Women’s participation in the economy needed to graduate from mere rhetoric and wishful thinking to actual practical application and inclusion,” he said. VP Mohadi said Government is committed to achieving women empowerment through the signing and ratification of a number of protocols as well as regional and international commitments meant to promote the rights of women and gender equality. He said among the conventions are the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against women (CEDAW) Protocol of the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights on the Rights of Women , Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The VP said despite the efforts, there remains a yawning gap between Zimbabwean men and women in terms of access to control over resources, opportunities and decision making. VP Mohadi emphasised that eradication of poverty and the economic empowerment of women are the chief cornerstones for achieving gender equality and sustainable development. “Government is also encouraging the promotion of Public Private Partnerships for the purpose of economic growth of our nation. In order for our country to develop the private and public sectors need to create synergies and linkages. Empowering women to participate fully in economic activities is essential in building stronger economies and improving the quality of life for women, men, families and communities as a whole,” said VP Mohadi. He said he was concerned by the increase in gender based violence cases in spite of interventions made by Government over the year. “I want to implore all stakeholders particularly our traditional leaders and churches to diligently work together to put an end to this menace. We cannot have our children and women being abused. We cannot have a nation where three quarters of the population is traumatised through abuse,” he said. Turning to health, VP Mohadi said emphasis is being made towards the resuscitation of health care facilities in rural and low income urban areas. He urged Government and the private sector to ensure that cervical cancer screening and testing services are accessible to women at all levels particularly in the districts. Women and Youth Affairs Minister, Cde Sithembiso Nyoni said Government had taken a leading role in harnessing the untapped potential and skills diversity in women and youth. “This is evidenced by the deliberate investment in establishment of the Ministry of Women and Youth Affairs mandated to transform the lives of these two marginalised groups through integrating them into the nation’s economic revival process as accelerators and catalysts of economic growth,” said Cde Nyoni. She said her Ministry through the 100 day initiatives had lined up a number of priorities among them women empowerment, youth empowerment, financial inclusion, community development technical vocational education and gender mainstreaming. — @AuxiliaK    