Russell Mhiribidi Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter REGISTRATION for the second edition of the Sports Leaders Institute of Zimbabwe (Sliz) organised Higher and Tertiary Education Autumn Sports Management Camp to be held next month in Kariba has opened. The camp, which targets tertiary and higher education institutions’ decision makers, that is principals, vice-principals, deans of students and heads of sports departments, will run from April 11 to 13 at the resort town. Russell Mhiribidi, Sliz director, told Chronicle Sport yesterday that the camp is a continuation of last year’s edition held at Masvingo’s Great Zimbabwe which had 104 participants. The inaugural addition of the autumn retreat covered the new education curricula, with focus on sport as an examinable subject as well as enhancing the teaching of mass displays. Topics to be covered at next month’s course include conflict management in tertiary sport, corporate governance in tertiary sport as well as continuous assessment of the new physical education and sports curriculum. Mhiribidi is also expected to share with the participants his experiences and partnership that Sliz has established with America’s West Virginia University. Mhiribidi and the institutes’ vice-president and head of marketing Clara Mukononyanga returned from America at the beginning of the month where they got an insight into how sports teams at American universities operate and their high levels of funding. We met with the Dean of Sports Science and chairmen of the faculties of sports management, athletics department, physical activity and sports sciences. “Registration is open for the autumn camp and it is our hope that the second edition of this clinic will attract more participants from the tertiary institutes as well as higher learning centres. “What is important is to adapt to the global trends and following the partnership that we’ve just established with West Virginia University, as Sliz we believe that our education institutions can also benefit from this. “At West Virginia University we met their sports science department which is finalising the coursework for sports science and we also met the experts for online courses, while their marketing department is working on marketing the Zimbabwe programme. “They want to use Zimbabwe as a pilot project for Africa and they are already doing such courses in countries like Bahrain and we are determined to make the Zimbabwe project a success story. “They (West Virginia University) feel that the world is going to be one small world and they want experiences from each part of the world to be shared. “On the programme of the autumn camp are discussions which will be centred on the following areas; conflict management in tertiary sport, corporate governance in tertiary sport, financial literacy and resource allocation, facility management as well as the new physical education and sports curriculum continuous assessment,” said Mhiribidi. @ZililoR