Kenneth Mhlophe Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter A new chapter begins for Highlanders tomorrow with their side termed “ECD” set to crawl at Barbourfields Stadium tomorrow for the real men’s game when they take on Black Rhinos in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League. Former Zimbabwe international and club legend Madinda Ndlovu has been assigned to restore the Highlanders’ culture of promoting talented junior players to the senior team. Highlanders chairman Kenneth Mhlophe yesterday made a passionate plea to the Highlanders followers to rally behind the team and be patient with the lads. Mhlophe also called on the followers to refrain from “anti-football” antics, hooliganism and accept the results that his team would have posted. “The 2018 season is starting on Sunday and our objective for the year is to build a team using mostly the juniors. We’re going back to the Highlanders way which the members asked for and it is of importance that the supporters understand the direction which the club is taking. I humbly ask our supporters to be patient with the boys, rally behind the lads when they are down and above all, respect the match officials’ decisions. Let us understand that at times decisions will go our way and at others they won’t favour us and that is the game of football. “As Highlanders we are also appealing to our supporters to jealously guard and protect the Highlanders name by not soiling the brand’s name. Let’s refrain from anti-football antics like pitch invasions and throwing missiles as that costs the club. I trust that the real Highlanders supporters will take heed of our call,” said Mhlophe. Last year Highlanders lost about $13 000 after being fined by the PSL for their fans’ behaviour. Highlanders members agreed at the annual general meeting in January to identify and have hooligans arrested and prosecuted. Meanwhile, Ndlovu says his side is prepared for a physical battle against army side Rhinos. Rhinos are known for their physical approach to the game. “At this point in time, we are worried about how we open our season. Right now I do not know who plays for Rhinos and how they play. I knew Rhinos 10 years ago but I do not know what kind of a side they are now. Whether they are a passing or physical side I am not aware. As Highlanders we just want to play the best football that we can and possibly win the game. If Rhinos come out with a physical approach to the game we will be ready for that. “We prepare to win all our games, a game of football is not about predictions, it’s a game where there are possible results, a win, draw or loss. One must be in a position to accept any  of those three results,” said Ndlovu. Bosso have some injury worries going into the game. Defender Charlton Siamalonga who seems to have built a solid partnership with Peter Muduhwa in central defence over the course of pre-season suffered a knock on his foot in training and faces two weeks on the sidelines. In the absence of Siamalonga, Tendai Ndlovu could bounce back in central defence to partner Muduhwa, while McClive Phiri and skipper Honest Moyo take their positions on the full-backs. Bosso welcome back from injury the midfield duo of Godfrey Makaruse and new acquisition Nigel Makumbe. Rhinos have roped in former Highlanders player Allen Gahadzikwa and ex-Dynamos midfielder Masimba Mambare who could trouble Highlanders on Sunday. Mambare was dubbed a “traitor”, days after he ditched the black and white camp to join DeMbare a couple of seasons ago while Gahadzikwa was at Bosso last term. Highlanders played new boys Nichrut, Chicken Inn, Dynamos, Caps United and Masvingo United in pre-season.