Grace Nyoni, Midlands Reporter POLICE spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba has called on the media to complement police efforts to spruce up their image which was battered by rampant corruption and harassment of members of the public. Addressing a media workshop in Gweru on Tuesday, Snr Asst Commissioner Charamba said the police need to regain the public’s confidence under the new dispensation and that can only be achieved if their efforts are complemented by the media. Snr Asst Comm Charamba said the media, being the fourth estate, plays a pivotal role in the country’s social and economic development. She said media has become an integral part of life in modern society and it provides people with information hence it can help the police in regaining its self-assurance from the public through keeping the people well informed of the good works the police are doing. “The media is referred to as the fourth estate and it can influence opinion of the whole society and act as a watch dog to ensure things are done in a transparent and proper way. Therefore through its reporting it can help us as the police force to gain goodwill especially in the eyes of the public,” said Snr Asst Comm Charamba. The relationship between the police and the media is like that of fish and water, we cannot do without each other. The ZRP is a source of important information more so as it relates to the security of the country.” Snr Asst Comm Charamba said the police was committed to creating good relations with the media so that the two could complement each other in serving the public. She said police public relations department will work hand in glove with the media and will be cooperative in providing information which is of public interest. “Allow me to recognise the significant role the media plays in the political, socio-economic development of any society. The quest for information in the modern world is very high as it impacts on people’s lives in different ways. “I have met Zimbabwe Editors Forum, ZUJ, MISA and the Media Alliance for the sole purpose of improving Police /Media relations”, said Snr Asst Comm Charamba.