 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE National Army roadrunner Leonard Koki will use today’s PPC Matopos Ultra Marathon to prepare for the revered South African competition, Comrades Marathon. Koki is among the country’s top athletes expected to illuminate the PPC Matopos Ultra Marathon. The seasoned runner said he is ready for the race having returned from a training camp in Nyanga. “I’m excited to be part of the race again and hopefully this time I’ll do well. I’m using the race as part of my preparations for the Comrades. I want to check my endurance levels at this PPC Matopos Ultra Marathon,” said Koki. The ZNA athlete has in the last four editions managed to finish within the top 10. Koki will fancy his chances of winning the $1 000 prize money for the athlete who finishes first in the 53km race following the withdrawal of defending champion, Lyno Muchena, who is reserving his energy for next weekend’s Two Oceans Marathon in Cape Town. Besides Koki, some of the top athletes who are said to have confirmed their participation are Wirimai Zhuwawo, Dumo Mkhwananzi, Patrick Chipoyi, defending women’s champion Lizzie Chokore, veteran Samukeliso Moyo and Chiedza Chokore. The Bulawayo Athletics Board (Bab) chairman, Manuel Mpofu, said they are expecting about 2 000 athletes to participate in today’s events. By lunch time yesterday, 1 100 athletes had registered and out of Bulawayo participants were expected to have registered by end of business yesterday. Organisers of the PPC Ultra-Marathon have made a giant leap by getting the race classified as qualifier for the Comrades Marathon after enlisting the services of leading sports timing company, Championchip Africa. The coming on board of Championchip Africa means this year’s main race, the PPC 33 Miler (53km) and half marathon (21.1km) will be electronically timed, with athletes that clock qualifying times for the Comrades Marathon automatically booking places for the gruelling race, which draws participants from all over the world. There won’t be electronic timing for the 10km and 5km races. Mpofu said: “The use of the transponder system should inspire athletes to post better times. It’s going to be an exciting race. We’re expecting athletes from as far as Harare, Mutare, Bindura, Kwekwe and Hwange. “We’ve also had our officials going through the course. We will have officials and clear signage within the park so that athletes don’t get lost.” PPC Zimbabwe has also maintained the prize structure with the winners of both men and women’s categories getting $1 000 and $750 for the runners-up, while the veterans, masters and grandmasters’ winners will receive $400 each for the ultra marathon. For the half marathon, winners in the men’s and women’s sections will receive $500 each, with the wheelchair category prizes pegged at $400 for the winners in each section. — @ZililoR