 Auxilia Katongomara/Namatirai Mashona,Chronicle Reporters A total of 699 prisoners have been freed from Bulawayo, Hwange, Victoria Falls prisons following the Presidential amnesty, amid calls for society to accept them. The prisoners who were serving for various offences were all smiles as they left prison complexes heading home to celebrate their freedom granted by President Emmerson Mnangagwa through a clemency order last week. 662 prisoners were released from prisons in Bulawayo while a combined 37 inmates were released from the Hwange and Victoria Falls prisons on Monday and yesterday. In an interview yesterday soon after the release of inmates at Bulawayo Prison, popularly known as Grey Prison, Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services public relations officer for Bulawayo Metropolitan Province, Principal Correctional Officer Garainashe Moyo said a total of 662 prisoners had been released from Khami and Bulawayo prisons. Out of the 814 names that have been submitted for pardon, a total of 662 have already been released from Khami and Bulawayo prisons since Monday. Moyo said 166 prisoners were released from Bulawayo Prison, 263 from Khami Maximum, 115 from Khami Medium, 67 from Khami Remand                 Prison and 51 from Mlondolozi Mental and Female prison. Moyo said the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Service had played its part in imparting life skills to the inmates as part of their rehabilitation. He urged people to accept the former inmates and also pleaded with the inmates to avoid being repeat offenders “We are saying to them do not to come back here, society should accept these people so that they feel that they are not misfits, they are an integral part of society, your societies,” said Moyo. He also urged the inmates to utilise the skills they gained during their incarceration to better their lives and make a difference to society. On Monday, Mlondolozi Mental and Female Prison housed at Khami Complex released 40 female inmates. A total of 37 inmates were released from Hwange and Victoria Falls prisons yesterday and on Monday. Among the 37 inmates are two Zambians William Tembo of Chongwe area and Gerald Mlambo of Maramba in Livingstone. Tembo was serving a jail term for entry by evasion, possession of a firearm without a licence, possession of dangerous drugs and illegal hunting while Mlambo had been jailed for entry by evasion. — @AuxiliaK @namatimasho79