VP Kembo Mohadi Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter A HIGH-PROFILE encounter is on the cards at Barbourfields Stadium tomorrow when the country’s traditional soccer giants Highlanders and Caps United faceoff in a match organised to celebrate the ascendancy of Kembo Mohadi to the post of Vice-President. This is probably the last game for the two sides as they wrap up their preparations for the 2018 soccer season. Highlanders are playing another high-profile encounter in as many weeks following last weekend’s 1-2 loss to Dynamos in the final of the ZNA Charity Shield. This time around Bosso face another giant, which is driven by experienced players compared to Highlanders’ youthful outfit. Caps United are no pushovers with the bulk of their experienced squad expected to give Madinda Ndlovu’s youngsters a good run for their money. A fortnight ago Caps United’s “oldies” were knocked out of the ZNA Charity Shield competition, going down 1-0 to Dynamos and will be out to avoid another embarrassment against Bosso. Ndlovu said the timing of the game is perfect for his lads as they work on fine-tuning their play. An area that Ndlovu will probably be keen on seeing improve is their finishing as they fluffed chances against Dynamos. “We’re heading towards the right direction. We just have to build up from what we noted in the game against Dynamos and rectify those mistakes. The game against Caps United comes at the right time as it will test the strength of our boys coming from a tough and enduring game against Dynamos. When you play two giants back to back it’s a tough task and the boys will surely be tested. “Like I’ve said before, we’re not really worried about the result, instead, we want to see how the boys are doing in terms of adapting to how we want them to play as we work towards achieving our objective. We also need to have a look at all the players and it is in such games where you can monitor the players’ progress,” said Ndlovu. He noted that his charges are getting confident with each passing game. “They are improving with each game, which is good sign. In the games that we have played, we have seen a lot of improvement in a lot of players, namely the likes of Adrian Silla. He has got himself to be our goal-getter and one only hopes that he continues throughout the season. As for the boys that are coming from the development side, we have seen a lot of improvement and are responding very well to the philosophy that we want to adopt,” Ndlovu said. Players that have joined Highlanders for the new season include former Tsholotsho FC and Ngezi Platinum Stars right-back McClive Phiri, who seems to have easily settled at Bosso and could be the find of the season. Former Under-20 defensive midfielder Ben Munsaka, ex-Bantu Rovers central midfielder Munyaradzi Chitambwe and unheralded Aces Youth Academy product Nigel Mukombe, who is an attacking midfielder, are some of Ndlovu’s new boys. Alongside seasoned goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda, central defender Peter Muduhwa, skipper Honest Moyo (left-back), wingers Godknows Makaruse and the speedy Gabriel Nyoni as well as top man Newman Sianchali, the newboys are expected to give Caps United a good run for their money. Caps United are expected to parade their latest additions to their squad who include former captain, Method Mwanjali, who returned from Tanzania, Oscar Machapa, former Dynamos’ Wisdom Mutasa and veteran goalkeeper, Munyaradzi Diya. The Green Machine also signed striker Brian Muzondiwa.— @ZililoR