 Codelia Mondela, Court Reporter A BULAWAYO man masqueraded as a police officer who was looking for stolen money and allegedly stole more than $20 000 from four people. Tichaona Tarinda (42) allegedly forced Ms Sifelani Mpofu, Ms Michelle Moyo (21), Mr Toni Tembo (52) and Ms Keresia Murwisi to surrender their ATM cards and pin codes. Tarinda later went on a shopping spree around the city buying cellphones and home theatres. The fake cop allegedly committed the crimes with an alleged accomplice Brighton Mawadza who is at large. Tarinda pleaded not guilty to four counts of theft before Bulawayo magistrate Ms Gladmore Mushove who remanded him out custody to April 11 for trial. For the State, Mr Kudakwashe Jaravaza alleged that on June 8 last year, Mawadza “picked” some money opposite Robert Tredgold building in front of Ms Murwisi’s daughter, Hazel Bimha, and allegedly lured her to a secluded place after promising her that they would share it. “Before they could share the money, Tarinda approached them and introduced himself as a police officer. He pretended to arrest the two. He searched Hazel’s bag and stole a Samsung cellphone, $15 and a bank card,” he said. “The two accused persons took the ATM card and swiped for three Samsung galaxy cellphones and two home theatres. The money stolen was $12 820.” Mr Jaravaza said on December 4, Mr Tembo sent his daughter Tenia Tembo to withdraw money at a city bank and she withdrew $50. Mawadza allegedly “picked” some money in front of her and invited her to share it. “Upon arrival at Centenary Park, Tarinda arrived in the company of another person and the duo introduced themselves as police officers. Tarinda searched the complainant’s bag and took out the ATM card. The accused persons went to swipe for goods worth $7 651 at OK Mart and Fortwell Wholesalers,” he said. “On February 25 this year, Tarinda and Mawadza allegedly stole a Samsung cellphone and a bank card from Ms Mpofu. They swiped for goods worth $250 at Fortwell Wholesalers.” The court heard that on the same day, they also allegedly stole Ms Moyo’s cellphone and withdrew $43 from her EcoCash account. — @MondelaC