President Mnangagwa Lynee Kumirayi, Chronicle Reporter ZANU-PF Matabeleland North yesterday said it is ready to host President Emmerson Mnangagwa who will tomorrow tour two projects in the province before addressing rallies. The President is expected to tour the Gwayi-Shangani Dam and also the Bulawayo-Nkayi Road as his new administration mobilises resources to complete the two projects. In an interview after a Provincial Coordinating Committee meeting held in Lupane, Zanu-PF provincial chairperson Cde Richard Moyo said the party is eager to host the President. He said the President will address the first rally at Nechilibi Secondary School at Cross Mabale near the Gwayi- Shangani Dam site. The second one will be at Ingwigwisi Bridge along the Bulawayo-Nkayi Road. Cde Moyo said the tour of the projects will afford President Mnangagwa an opportunity to personally assess progress in implementing these two important projects. “The visit by the President is very important to us as a province given the long time it has taken to complete these two projects. The completion of these two projects will have a positive impact on the lives of the people in this province and beyond. “Since the President will be accompanied by  relevant Ministers and other Government officials, we are very confident that there will be significant progress towards completion of the projects after the visit,” said Cde Moyo. He said politically it was important that President Mnangagwa comes to the ground to interact with the people as the country’s President. “This will be the first time that President Mnangagwa is interacting with the people from Matabeleland North since his elevation in November last year. Cde Moyo said people will hear for themselves the direction Cde Mnangagwa’s administration is taking as regards the future of this country. “We are very confident as a province that President Mnangagwa’s administration will strive to complete the long outstanding projects such as the Gwayi-Shangani Dam, Bulawayo – Nkayi road and many others,” he said. Cde Moyo said the party was already on the ground mobilising members to attend President Mnangagwa’s rallies and has secured 15 trucks and several buses. @Lyneesboe