Roy Mazingi Lovemore Zigara in Gweru BRAGGING rights are at stake for the Midlands Premiership sides when they clash in the Roy Mazingi Memorial Tournament to be held at Mandava Stadium today. The tournament, which is being held in memory of the late Chapungu goalkeeper, Roy Mazingi, involves the airmen, Premiership champions FC Platinum, Shabanie Mine and newcomers Nichrut. After FC Platinum paraded their team in their ill-fated Caf champions’ league campaign, the tournament gives the other Midlands Premiership representatives a chance to unveil their squads that are likely to do duty in the forthcoming Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season which kicks off next weekend. Chapungu has been paired against Shabanie Mine in the first semi-final while FC Platinum takes on Nichrut in the other semi-final match. Event organiser, Chapungu public relations officer Tawanda Zowa said all is set for the football extravaganza which kicks off at 10AM. “Everything is now set for the Roy Mazingi Memorial Tournament at Mandava Stadium tomorrow. We had wanted to hold the tournament at Ascot Stadium where Roy showcased his skills but we had to settle for Mandava since Ascot is undergoing renovations,” he said. “We are confident that the fans will get value for their money as the teams have promised to have their full strength squads. The tournament kicks off at 10 AM and we are urging football fans to come in their numbers to Zvishavane,” said Zowa. He said gate charges have been pegged at $2 for the cheapest ticket for the full duration of the day long tournament. Chapungu coach, Tendai Chikuni, said the tournament gives him an opportunity to fine tune his squad ahead of the new season. “We have prepared well for the season and playing in this tournament will give us a chance to gauge our strength ahead of the season. I am confident that we have assembled a good team and we hope to win the tournament in honour of Roy,” he said. Nichrut coach, John Nyikadzino, said he also wanted to use the tournament to gauge his charges’ strength ahead of the start of the premiership season. — @lavuzigara1