Joseph Muchechetere Raymond Jaravaza, Sports Correspondent THE Sports and Recreation Commission (SRC) has given new recreational organisation, the Zimbabwe Displays Wellness, Recreation Education and Sport for all Association (ZDWERESA), the green light to hold its inaugural conference scheduled for Kwekwe from March 9-11. ZDWERESA is a new recreational association that draws its membership from mass displays, physical and wellness activities, drum majorettes, aerobics, Boy Scouts, Girl Guides and Brownies. “As the supreme sports and recreational body in the country, we welcome the initiative to regularise recreational activities such as drum majorettes and mass displays, which have in the past been left to operate without a properly regulated body. As a country, we take recreational activities seriously because that industry has potential to create jobs as well as empowering and keeping our youths away from the streets but that can only be done when the recreational activities are regularised,” said SRC acting director-general Joseph Muchechetere. “Recreation is bigger than sport, but if not properly organised and formalised, it doesn’t have the capacity to reach all corners of the country. It’s our hope that ZDWERESA will fill that gap and take recreational activities to all corners.” The SRC is expected to preside over the ZDWERESA elective congress where an executive committee will be voted into office. An official in the ZDWERESA conference organising team Richard Gotora said they are expecting at least 250 delegates for the inaugural conference. “We are targeting about 250 delegates drawn from institutions of learning, the uniformed forces, churches, local authorities, sports clubs and non-governmental organisations from the country’s 10 provinces. In line with government’s vision of an active populace to fight non-communicable diseases through wellness and keeping fit, the new body is expected to set up community clubs across the country,” said Gotora. The initial ZDWERESA conference was supposed to be held in November last year, but was postponed to give provinces time to prepare and send sizeable delegations. @RaymondJaravaza