Lupane State University Vice Chancellor, Professor Pardon Kuipa (third from left), receives a donation from the ZImpapers board member Mr Felix Moyo at Lupane State University. From left are the Pro Vice Chancellor Dr Nomathemba Ndiweni, ZImpapers board member Karen Dube and Zimpapers public relations manager Ms Beatrice Tonhodzayi. Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter ZIMPAPERS yesterday donated information and communications technology gadgets worth $10 000 to Lupane State University and $2 000 to be awarded to excelling media students. The university was handed six desktops, six monitors, three printers and cables, a projector, a digital camera and a projector screen to boost the media lab. Speaking before handing over the donation in Lupane yesterday, Mr Felix Moyo, a Zimpapers board member, urged the institution to embrace technological advancements to remain relevant. “Zimpapers is a business that is grounded on the principle of innovation and growth. Without innovation; business will die as we have witnessed many companies collapse because they failed to remain relevant,” said Mr Moyo. “Media workers must be conversant with digital systems and technology hence our donation to the institution. Today we are here in response to your calls to handover equipment worth $10 000 that will be used at the media lab.” He said the $2 000 was to be given to excelling students from the Media and Communication programme. “I urge the institution to safeguard the gadgets and ensure that the money be kept until graduation time,” said Mr Moyo. “We request and suggest that a floating trophy, the Zimpapers trophy for the best student in media and communication be launched with this donation. We further suggest that some cash prizes be given to the best students in the programme. Mr bursar sir, safely keep the money ring-fenced as a specific fund till graduation time.” LSU Vice-Chancellor Professor Pardon Kuipa extended his gratitude to the company saying the donation will go a long way in helping students research and embrace technology. “We are honoured to be receiving this donation from the company which for the past years has helped by offering our students attachment places. It is encouraging to note that we still have companies that want to plough back in the community and we will ensure the gadgets are put to good use,” said Prof Kuipa. — @thamamoe