Sarah Mpofu Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent IT’s been years since veteran actress Sarah Mpofu-Sibanda has been on television screens, but a new Zimbabwean comedic movie, Jaiva S’bone, will afford her fans the chance to see her in action. The movie, a production of Multimedia Box, will premiere on April 25 on Zambezi Magic (DStv channel 160). Mpofu-Sibanda, the woman who captured the hearts of many with her role as Tashi in the hit drama series Amakorokoza years ago, has been on and off the silver screen since then. In this new production, the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe patron plays Pinky – a shebeen queen. The movie also features veteran actor Memory Kumbota who plays Topi Shakes – a local gangster and her on screen boyfriend. Comedian Ntando Van Moyo plays Manyonyoba, a streetwise kombi driver. The hour long comedy film commissioned by Zambezi Magic was shot in Bulawayo’s city centre, Nkulumane suburb and Barbourfields. It is a story by Johanne Mpofu, written by former Sunday News intern Nkosilesisa Kwanele Ncube, with Kudzai Chikomo of Multi Media Box as the producer and Kumbota as director. It is about two friends Madlisa and Manyonyoba who try to find a winning lotto ticket belonging to the former. The ticket was lost after the pair were robbed at a local shebeen run by Pinky. One of the suspected robbers is Pinky’s boyfriend. This feature film follows another titled Love Is Not Enough that starred award-winning actresses Bathabile Dlamini and Charlene Mangweni. The film premiered in February. Mpofu-Sibanda said although this was not her first movie as she acted in Sinners in 2013, this new role was challenging. “This role of a shebeen queen was relatively new to me as I didn’t know much about that lifestyle. But, fortunately there were people who helped me get into character as we were shooting. “This was an eye opener for me as it was both challenging getting into character and exciting to be working with a relatively young cast,” said Mpofu-Sibanda. She said she hoped more Zimbabwean movies would be produced. “This is a step in the right direction for Zimbabwean producers. It’s high time we get to tell our own stories to a regional, continental and global audience. So hopefully, after this movie, there’ll be more productions.” Said Ntando Van Moyo: “The experience was exciting because it was my first time to feature in a movie. Also, working with Sarah Mpofu and Kumbota, two veterans in the acting industry, was more than amazing as their wealth and depth in acting is unparalleled. “Everyday, I learnt something new.” He said he hoped this movie would boost his career. “Featuring on Zambezi Magic on a movie will work positively for me to showcase my comedy skills in front of the camera to an international market. “Perhaps, people can get to know that off stage, I can infuse my comedy on television,” said Van Moyo.