Mavis Koslek` Lovemore Zigara, Midlands Correspondent ORGANISERS of the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe beauty pageant in the Midlands province have begun scouting for contestants with auditions set to be held in Kwekwe tomorrow. The auditions will be held at King Solomon’s Hotel before moving to Gweru at the Fairmile Hotel the next day and being concluded in Zvishavane at Pote Hotel on Sunday. Miss Tourism Midlands coordinator Mavis Koslek said they wanted to give every girl from the province an equal opportunity to be part of the pageant. “Miss Tourism Zimbabwe has begun scouting for girls throughout the country. Miss Tourism Zimbabwe is not only looking for a beautiful girl, but for a true tourism ambassador,” Koslek said. “Although beauty and appearance are key factors, Miss Tourism Zimbabwe contestants do not necessarily have to be tall and slim. Our main focus is their ability to represent our beautiful country on an international platform.” Among some of the requirements for the contestants are that they should be between the ages of 18 and 24, should not have given birth or entered into a marriage. The dress code for the auditions, Koslek said, is a black dress and heels or black jeans, heels and a white top. Zimbabwe Tourism Authority area manager Lizzie Adams-Chirandu said they support the pageant which is an initiative which will help to market the Midlands and Zimbabwe as a tourism destination. “We support the auditions that are being held for Miss Tourism Zimbabwe and as a tourism authority we support such an event because events are part of tourism as well. They help to draw crowds to the destination and we would like to encourage the young ladies to go for auditions and become Midlands and Zimbabwe ambassadors,” Adams-Chirandu said. The ladies who will be selected from the auditions will battle it out at provincial level, with the winners set to participate at national level. The national finals are billed to take place in Bulawayo in September with the winner automatically securing a slot to represent Zimbabwe in Malaysia, at the Miss Tourism World finals. @lavuzigara1