 Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE will this weekend play host to the fourth edition of the International Korfball Federation All-Africa World Cup qualifiers at the Chitungwiza Aquatic Complex. Malawi, Zambia, South Africa and Zimbabwe will battle it out for the two World Cup finals’ slots in Durban in July 2019. According to chief executive officer of the qualifiers and former footballer More Moyo, Zambia and Malawi are expected to arrive in the country tomorrow, while South Africa are expected on Friday. “We are ready as Zimbabwe and appeal to people to come in their numbers to cheer us on. We are confident of qualifying for the finals as Zimbabwe and the support will be greatly welcome,” said Moyo. Zimbabwe, who are coached by Percy Mugadza, will get the competition underway against Zambia, while South Africa take on Malawi in the second match. On Saturday, Zimbabwe will face South Africa in the first match of the day, with Zambia and Malawi playing later. The last round of matches will be on Sunday where South Africa and Zambia will get to the courts first followed by the Zimbabwe and Malawi tie. “South Africa are here to avoid losing ranking points, but by virtue of being the hosts, they have already qualified for the World Cup finals,” said Moyo. Korfball is a ball sport, with similarities to netball and basketball. It is played by two teams of eight players with four females and four males in each team or with eight players in each team. The objective is to throw a ball through a bottomless basket that is mounted on a 3.5m (11.5 feet) high pole. The sport was invented by Dutch school teacher Nico Broekhuysen in 1902 and is played in over 60 countries. A korfball match typically consists of two periods between 25 and 30 minutes. Four players from each team are in one zone and others in the other zone. Within each zone, a player may only defend a member of the opposite team of the same gender. At the beginning of the match, one team chooses one half of the court. That half will be their defending zone, with ‘their’ basket in it. Players score by throwing the ball through the opponents’ basket. After two goals, the teams change zones; defenders become attackers and attackers become defenders. In between those zone changes, attackers cannot set foot on their defending zone or vice-versa. The rules prevent physical strength dominating the game. Blocking, tackling, holding and kicking the ball are not allowed. Once a player has the ball, one cannot dribble, run or walk with it. However, one can move one foot as long the foot the player landed on when they caught the ball stays in the same spot. Therefore, tactical and efficient teamwork is required because players need each other to keep the ball moving. A player may not attempt to score when defended, which occurs when the defender is in between the opponent and the basket; or is facing his/her opponent and is within arm’s length and attempting to block the ball. This rule encourages fast movement, while also limiting the impact of players’ height compared to their opponents.