Melissa Mpofu, Showbiz Editor GOSPEL artistes from Matabeleland South and Bulawayo have teamed up to stage a thanksgiving show at the Brethren in Christ Church (BICC) hall in Gwanda tomorrow (Saturday). The family show, that will start soon after midday, is being hosted by the artistes as a way of appreciating fans in Gwanda for their support during the annual Gwanda Gospel Festival that has been a resounding success since its inception in 2015. For the past three years, the festival, a free for all event, has grown tremendously, even attracting gospel enthusiasts from across the country’s borders. Running under the theme “Giving thanks to the Almighty, together as one”, the show will feature performances from Nkiwane, Tholakele “Sis Thoe” Ndlovu and Judith among others. Working in partnership with BICC Gwanda under the leadership of Reverend Mhizha, the show will also serve as a build up to this year’s gospel festival that will be held at Pelandaba Stadium from September 7 to 9. Event organisers said: “Sis Thoe, Judith and Nkiwane have been performing at the Gwanda Gospel show since its inception and feel appreciative to the Gwanda community hence the staging of this big show for their supporters. “Abigail Mwembe is also billed to perform and will be promoting the Tonga language. She’ll also drop her award-winning Bulawayo Arts Awards and Skyz Metro FM song of the year, Ajane.” Meanwhile, preparations for the Gwanda Gospel Festival are in full swing with the list of performers from South Africa and Zimbabwe being finalised. The festival, which is running under the theme, “The Walls of Jericho Did Fall”, will once again be hosted by Justice Maphosa’s Big Time Strategic Group in a bid to promote local and regional talent by praising and worshipping God. The festival, that has been attracting thousands of people, has proven to be a major driver of religious tourism in the country and could just be one of the country’s top well organised festivals after the Harare International Festival of the Arts