Mr Justice Maphosa Business Reporter SOUTH Africa-based Zimbabwean businessman, Mr Justice Maphosa, has committed to using his growing business empire in Africa to empower the less privileged but talented youth on the continent as part of his company’s social corporate responsibility. The Gwanda-born Bigtime Strategic Group chief executive officer said as the company establishes its footprint in Africa, his desire is to empower young black Africans through bursary programmes. “As we do business in Africa, we meet a lot of needy families that require us to be of assistance. My heart’s desire is to look after those that God watches the most — the poor and the forgotten — those that don’t have,” said Mr Maphosa in a statement. “I want to liberate the black African child. I’m a firm believer in the fact that if the world gave enough, there would be no poverty at all. I always say that when dinner is served in my house, I want to eat with a clear conscience knowing I’ve fed someone. In fact, I’d like to go to bed knowing that I’ve fed 1 000 children on that particular day and produced 100 university graduates.” He encouraged those from a less privileged background to keep their heads high and do their best to be perfect candidates for success. Bigtime recently gave a R500 000 bursary to a 19-year-old girl from Gwanda, Ms Inobubele Marvellous Dube, for her pilot training at the Flight Training Services (FTS) in Midrand, South Africa. “I am so grateful for this opportunity. I cannot put my gratitude into words. It is immense. I could not have seen my dream come true,” said Ms Dube. Mr Maphosa received a special recognition award at the Zimbabwe Achievers Awards (ZAA) held in Johannesburg, South Africa on Saturday for his humanitarian work. Mr Conrad Mwanza, ZAA chairperson, said: “We need to make people like him more. He has an inspiring story and we believe his story can inspire a generation of Zimbabweans.” In South Africa, Bigtime Strategic Group has adopted two schools — one in Alexandra, Johannesburg (Emfundisweni Primary School) and Upper Corana Primary School in the Eastern Cape. When Bigtime adopted Upper Corana, it had 30 learners and most teachers had left because of the deplorable conditions. Presently, the school has over 350 learners. The company pays salaries for 10 teachers and also provides transport to learners to and from school as most of them stay far from the school. The company also provides breakfast and lunch for all learners during weekdays. Bigtime is a young and dynamic African company engineered to succeed through operations that continuously strive for growth. “We have grown into every sector of the economy. We have a diversified portfolio including transport, aviation, research for projects and solutions, energy, agriculture, financial services and events management,” said the company.