Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls ORGANISERS of the Hwange Agricultural Show say the annual exhibition has potential to stand tall as Matabeleland North’s brand expo if the business community render it the necessary support. Whange Show Society, which runs the exhibition, has over the years lamented the low uptake of space at the annual exhibition as potential exhibitors, especially Government departments and tour operators, have snubbed the event preferring to exhibit at bigger events such as the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair and Harare Agricultural Show. The Hwange Agricultural Show is the only prime provincial occasion in Matabeleland North Province with the district Victoria Falls Agricultural Show (VFAS) coming on board two years ago. Mr Herbert Sansole, who chairs Whange Show Society, has appealed to a cross section of businesses who attended an all stakeholders meeting in Victoria Falls to support the event. “The reason why shows are held is to exchange ideas. Whange Show Society organises the Hwange Agricultural Show every year and we should take this as part of branding for the province so we leverage on the new economic order,” said Mr Sansole. He said this year’s show will be held between August 8 and 11 at the show society’s grounds. Mr Sansole said preparatory work has already started. “We have communicated with all Rural District Councils and stakeholders in the province appealing to them to seriously consider the show as a perfect marketing platform for themselves and our province. “What we have asked stakeholders is for them to consider erecting permanent structures. We are re-strategising in our marketing drive and we have produced a brochure, which we hope will go a long way in luring exhibitors,” added Mr Sansole. He said there was enough space at the show grounds as organisers have over the years failed to record 100 percent. Last year there were 42 exhibitors, an increase from 32 in 2016. Mr Sansole said this year they were targeting between 50 and 60 exhibitors as they expect the new marketing strategies to bear fruit. Exhibition space is pegged at $5 per square metre for those with permanent structures and $4 per square metre for those using temporary structures. Adults and children will pay $2 and $1 respectively to enter. Over the years the show has failed to live up to expectations due to lack of support from Government departments and the tourism sector, which makes the bulk of businesses in Matabeleland North province. — @ncubeleon.