Norman Mapeza Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter REIGNING Castle Lager Coach of the Year, Norman Mapeza is making steady progress from a back operation he had last month. His assistant Lizwe Sweswe has been in charge of Zvishavane-based FC Platinum on an interim basis. FC Platinum spokesperson, Chido Chizondo, said Mapeza was on the road to recovery and no complications arose from the operation. “Our head coach is recuperating well and is actually awaiting his check up. We will have more information then, but all is well so far,” said Chizondo. She said Mapeza and Sweswe are always in touch over the team’s progress and rubbished reports that Mapeza was remotely in charge. “Communication with Mapeza is natural; they have a good working relationship and he entrusted Sweswe because he is confident of his capabilities, not that he orders him around,” said Chizondo. The former Warriors’ skipper made history last season when he led FC Platinum to their maiden league title and in the process becoming the first team from outside Harare and Bulawayo in more than 50 years to win the accolade. Pure Platinum Play, however, came unstuck in the Caf Total Champions League battle where they were booted out in the first round after losing 1-5 on aggregate to Angolan side Clube Desportivo Primero de Agosto. The shock exit led to fears that the gaffer might be relieved of his duties by the club’s management, but those fears were quickly squashed after FC Platinum said the African safari was another learning curve. FC Platinum are at Luveve Stadium tomorrow for a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League encounter with bruised league debutants Bulawayo Chiefs. An intriguing encounter should be in store for fans as Bulawayo Chiefs are yet to lose a match in the city . Fixtures Saturday: Harare City v Black Rhinos (Rufaro) ZPC Kariba v Chicken Inn (Nyamhunga Stadium, Bulawayo City v Triangle United (Barbourfields), Yadah v Nichrut (NSS), Ngezi Platinum v Mutare City Rovers (Baobab), Bulawayo Chiefs v FC Platinum (Luveve) Sunday: CAPS United v Dynamos (NSS), Highlanders v Shabanie Mine (Barbourfields), Chapungu v Herentals (Ascot)