Nyaradzo Bakari, Chronicle Reporter AN UNIDENTIFIED man has died after he was hit by a car in a suspected hit and run accident. Bulawayo police provincial spokesperson Inspector Precious Simango confirmed the incident, which occurred at the intersection of Siyephambili Drive and Nketa Drive at around 1 AM on Thursday. Insp Simango said the man suspected to be aged between 35 and 40 years, was found dead on the road and had injuries all over the body. “I can confirm that a man between 35 and 40 years of age was found dead on the road at the intersection of Siyephambili Drive and Nketa Drive. The man had multiple fractures hence we suspect that he might have died in an accident. No one witnessed the accident so we suspected it could have been a hit and run,” said Insp Simango. She said the man was tall, slim and had a fair skin complexion. The deceased was wearing blue jeans, a black jacket and grey tennis shoes at the time of his death. His body was taken to United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) mortuary. Insp Simango appealed to members of the public who may have information on the accident or the identity of the man to approach the nearest police station. “We are appealing to members of the public who might have seen the accident or heard about it to provide information to the police. We are also appealing to people who could be missing a relative with the above description,” she said. Meanwhile, a seven-year-old boy died after he was knocked down by a Honda Fit in Barbourfields suburb last Tuesday afternoon. Insp Simango confirmed the incident and urged drivers to stop at zebra crossings and give way to pedestrians. “I can confirm the death of a seven-year-old boy who was hit by a Honda Fit along Vera road in Barbourfields. We urge drivers to practise caution on the road and give way to pedestrians crossing at zebra crossings,” she said. A witness said the boy, whose name could not be established, died upon arrival at Mpilo Central Hospital. The witness said the minor was knocked down by the speeding car while crossing the road at a zebra crossing line opposite Mzilikazi Primary School at around 3.30 PM. “The boy was crossing the road going to the stadium to watch soccer players rehearsing. The driver of the Honda Fit was speeding while the boy was crossing the road running. As he was in the middle of the road, the car hit him and threw him up. The boy landed on his forehead about eight metres from the zebra crossing,” said the source. “The driver of the Honda Fit was a young man. I suspect he could have run off had it not been for the police officer who witnessed the incident and blocked the road with the ambulance he was driving.” @NyarieBakie