A potential buyer takes a look at one of the shoes at the Millenium Footwear stand at ZITF last week Thandiwe Katinhimure, Business Reporter SMALL to Medium Enterprises (SMEs) who exhibited at the just ended Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) have said they are happy with the exposure they gained and are hopeful the show will bear positive fruits for their operations. Speaking in separate interviews last week, SMEs operators at the fair said the platform afforded them room to strike big business deals. They expressed satisfaction with the level of engagement during the fair, which began last Tuesday and ended on Saturday. Sales representative for Confidepay Private Limited, Mr Spaiton Andirade, said although it was their first time to exhibit at the ZITF, they had managed to strike deals that would take their company to another level. “We’re exhibiting here for the first time and we’re really pleased with the response that we’ve received from members of the public. People are excited with our products and we have received a number of orders so far,” he said. “We’ve found a lot of new customers, both individuals and companies. We manufacture hospital equipment. We were nominated to be part of the trade fair by our ministry and we are here for the first time. I am confident that the ZITF will take us to another level.” SMEs, which are a major source of employment and generate significant domestic and export earnings, continue to face numerous problems that include inadequate financial resources, poor networks and unfavourable and restrictive regulations. Several local and foreign SMEs participated at this year’s ZITF, buoyed by the positive investor sentiment on the back of economic reforms under the new political administration led by President Mnangagwa. Mr Gift Ncube, a small scale operator who was showcasing cosmetics at the fair, also shared the same sentiments as he pointed out that he has received many orders for his products. “Our ministry has really assisted us in uplifting our small business this year. The ZITF has become a strong marketing platform for us to get more customers and learn more from other exhibitors and I am confident that after the ZITF we will accelerate to the next level,” said Mr Ncube. SMEs exhibited a variety of products that cut across diverse economic sectors. This year ZimTrade facilitated participation of SMEs who had undertaken the marketing and branding for international competitiveness (MBIC) training programme ahead of their attendance at Zimbabwe’s flagship trade fair. ZimTrade acting CEO, Mr Allan Majuru, said: “One of the modules in the MBIC training programme prepares SMEs with fundamental aspects about how to get ready for shows, and how to attract buyers and promote products during these important events. ZITF might be their first show, and in addition to raising their profile, can act as a grooming platform before taking on international trade fairs which are often much more competitive.” This year’s participants included companies from the following sectors; processed foods, leather products, honey, coffee, jewellery, and ceramics. @thandyfeminine