Dr Solwayo Ngwenya Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE situation is back to normal at Government hospitals following the return of doctors who had gone on strike last month. Some departments at major hospitals such as Mpilo Central Hospital in Bulawayo and United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) had been shut down as a result of the strike. The industrial action was called off during the Easter holidays and the doctors said they were resuming work yesterday. Mpilo Hospital clinical director Dr Solwayo Ngwenya confirmed that doctors at the institution were back at work and the situation was back to normal. “The doctors started reporting for work today and everything is back to normal. Mpilo was, however, functioning in any case except for the out patients department which was closed. “We’re grateful that the doctors are back at work and all our departments are operational now. We had made duty rosters to stretch up to April 3 to cover the holidays and make sure that our patients were attended to,” said Dr Ngwenya. United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) clinical director Dr Narcisius Dzvanga also confirmed that operations had also normalised at the institution yesterday. “The strike ended during the Easter holidays and the doctors informed us that they would be back on April 3. The doctors have since reported for work as promised and this has come as a relief to the hospital management and the patients. “Operations at the institution were almost grinding to a halt due to the absence of doctors,” said Dr Dzvanga. The Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors’ Association spokesperson Dr Mxolisi Ngwenya said they had finally reached an agreement with the Health Services Board after President Mnangagwa intervened. He said there was an upward review of on call allowances with the procurement of essential medicines and drugs in the process to improve service delivery at the hospitals. Dr Ngwenya said his association will continually review the situation until the attainment of regional and international standards despite the limitations in the country’s economy. Apart from reviewing the doctors’ allowances, the Government also promised to correct grading anomalies in the health sector. However, the Zimbabwe Nurses’ Association said nurses would continue with their plans to down tools as they were not satisfied with what the Government was offering them. — @pamelashumba1