Mkhuphali Masuku Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter SOUTHERN Region Division One Soccer League side Talen Vision have strengthened their technical team by adding former national team assistant coach, Mkhuphali Masuku, to their structures. Talen Vision chief executive officer, Juma Phiri, confirmed the  engagement adding that the ex-Highlanders, Caps United and Harare City gaffer will head their development side as well as assist first team coach Miroslav Nemac. Masuku, whose contract with Harare City expired at the end of last season, travelled with the team for their away Independence Day league clash against championship favourites Makomo in Hwange on Wednesday. “Mkhuphali Masuku brings on board a wealth of experience having worked for big teams (Highlanders, Caps United and Harare City). His main responsibility is to head our junior teams, see to it that those who graduate from the juniors into the senior team uphold and understand the culture of Talen Vision. Masuku will at the same time double up as assistant coach in the senior team,” Juma said. Talen Vision have done away with “veterans” choosing to focus on young players with an average age of 23 years. They are made up of mostly unheralded players like goalkeeper Emmanuel Gari, defenders Felix  Dumah and Brian Venge, attacking linkman Adonis Nyoni and two Nigerian imports Amos Adefemi and Miniru. Players with Premiership experience include former Bantu Rovers captain Kudzaishe Dzingwe, utility player Nyasha Garayi, and ex-Bulawayo City striker, Dingani Maphosa. Maphosa scored a beauty when they drew with Makomo in Hwange, beating seasoned goalkeeper Nonjabulo Dube at the near post. Central midfielder, Brendon Moyo, scored the other goal for Talen Vision. Makomo’s goals were an own goal by a Talen Vision defender and got their second from goalkeeper Dube. Talen Vision face new boys Main Line FC of Plumtree at Gifford High School at 12PM today while Makomo are away in a potentially explosive Hwange derby against ZPC Hwange. Former Premiership sides Tsholotsho and Hwange faceoff at Raylton in another exciting game. Week 3 Fixtures Today: ZRP Bulawayo Province v Casmyn (Fairbridge), Moto Moto v Indlovu Iyanyathela (Mpumalanga), NRZ Leopards/ Chiwororo vs CIWU (postponed), Talen Vision v Main Line (Gifford, 12PM), ZPC Hwange v Makomo (Hwange), Mosi Rovers v Zim Leopards (Chinotimba), Tsholotsho v Hwange (Raylton, 12PM) Tomorrow: Bosso 90 v Toronto (Barbourfields) Midweek results Wednesday, April 18: Main Line v NRZ Leopards/Chiwororo (postponed), Zim Leopards 1-1 ZPC Hwange, Hwange 3-0 Mosi Rovers, Casmyn v Bosso 90 (postponed), CIWU v Moto Moto (postponed), Makomo 2-2 Talen Vision, Indlovu Iyanyathela v ZRP Bulawayo Province (postponed), Toronto 0-2 Tsholotsho