Madlela Skhobokhobo Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent MUSICIAN-cum actor Bashimane Ndlovu, popularly known by his stage name Madlela Skhobokhobo, held a successful show in Gwanda over the weekend but believes he is not done yet as there is more to come. Ndlovu organised a Madlela Day at Phelandaba Stadium on Saturday which was attended by thousands of revellers and top musicians from Bulawayo and Gwanda including Jeys Marabini, Clement Magwaza, Zinjaziyamluma, Hwabaraty and Zhezhingtons. The Ngamnaka uSaMamo hit-maker held the show in his hometown to celebrate accolades won last year at the Bulawayo Arts Awards and Skyz Metro Music Awards. Reflecting on the event, Madlela said the Gwanda show was just the beginning of good things to come. “I haven’t reached my destiny as there’s a lot that I need to do. As long as there’s no road named after Madlela, I haven’t achieved anything,” Madlela said jokingly. “But seriously, as long as in my heart, I’m not satisfied with what I’ve done, I wouldn’t have reached my destiny.” He said he was driven by a dream to take his career to a higher level. “What gnaws my mind everyday and what drives me is a dream. I believe that there’s no task or show too big to organise that can hinder a person determined to get to another level in his career. “I was driven by this dream to do something in my hometown to thank the people there for their support.” Madlela thanked the over 2 000 people who attended the Gwanda concert. “I’d like to thank the people who came out to support me during the show. The Gwanda community outdid themselves with their support. Although I didn’t fill up the stadium which has a holding capacity of 6 000 plus, I’m happy with the over 2 000 people who thronged the venue,” he said. Ndlovu said it was comforting to have all those people after the failed Madlela Day in December which was cancelled because of heavy rains. “The crowds I saw in Gwanda showed me that we need, as artistes, to raise the bar and not do ordinary things. If some artistes from other places can attract capacity crowds, why can’t we as artistes from Matabeleland or Bulawayo do the same? There’s nothing that can hold us back.” Because of the success of this event, Madlela has revealed plans to make it an annual affair as he hopes to someday, fill up Pelandaba Stadium. Looking into 2018, Ndlovu said there were movies, videos and albums that were in the pipeline. “I’m busy with an album that’ll be released this year and also the Madlela Skhobokhobo television series that I want to complete and send to various TV stations. I’ve got another television series Umango that I’m working on so fans should look out for these productions,” said Ndlovu.