Darlington Dodo Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter BULAWAYO City coach, Darlington Dodo, has challenged his charges to bounce back to winning ways when they face visiting Black Rhinos at Barbourfields Stadium tomorrow afternoon. City will walk into Emagumeni hoping to breathe life into their start to the 2018 campaign. City are at position 11 on the table having accumulated four points from as many games. They have not won in their previous three encounters. After opening their campaign with a 2-0 victory over Chapungu, they went on to lose by a goal to nil away to Harare City before being held to a one all draw by premiership debutants Bulawayo Chiefs. In their last encounter City succumbed to a 1-0 defeat at the hands of defending champions and title favourites, FC Platinum. The army side on the other hand, head to Bulawayo on the back of a two- nil defeat at the hands of Caps United. Rhinos’ only victory in this campaign came when they beat struggling ZPC Kariba 2-0 in Harare. Both teams have not had the perfect start to the season and will have their sights on collecting maximum points. Dodo believes their biggest let down has been poor finishing in front of goal. “Results have not gone our way lately. In terms of playing, my boys are playing well. If you look at our last game, we created some good chances but still failed to score. It does not pay to play good football but fail to score, we definitely need to start scoring. “We have been putting more emphasis on our finishing. It’s one area that we really need to work on if we entertain any hopes of winning. So yes, we are looking forward to seeing the boys working on their shortcomings,” he said. Dodo, however, reckons that it will not be an easy match given that Chipembere are a physical side. “We are ready for anything going into this game, we know Rhinos have that physical approach to their game but I believe the boys are ready to counter that. In their attacking ranks City have the likes of Ishmael Wadi, Timothy January, Lucky Nyathi and Nhlanhla Ndlovu to call upon. City survived relegation by a whisker on the last day of the 2017 season and will not want to face the same predicament this season.  — @_innocentskizoe.