Davido Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent MUSIC lovers in Bulawayo will be sad to learn that Davido, who will be in Harare next weekend, could have easily come here for an  appearance/performance, but those plans were shelved after his promoter was told the Nigerian would not attract numbers. Davido’s Zimbabwe host, Harare socialite and businessman Genius “Ginimbi” Kadungure, who was in Bulawayo recently to meet event organisers, said he was advised against bringing the Fall hit-maker here. “I was in Bulawayo last week; we were doing some research because we wanted to bring Davido there on the 20th of April – a day before the Harare show. But people in the entertainment industry that side said maybe we won’t be able to pull the numbers that we wanted,” said Ginimbi. Ginimbi, who is famous for flaunting his flashy cars on social media, was spotted in Bulawayo at Hartsfield Tshisanyama where he met 3D Events founder Mduduzi Mdlongwa who is organising the Lady Zamar concert on April 17 and Zarah Lounge’s resident DJ TBass. The Nigerian superstar, who snubbed the country twice, is pencilled to perform at the Harare International Conference Centre at a show dubbed “30 Billion Concert” next week Saturday. It is hoped that this time around, he will make it to the country because of his association with Ginimbi. On that show, Ginimbi assured Zimbabweans that Davido would show up with his 11-member band. He said to show his seriousness, Davido would arrive two days before to take a tour of the capital city and do a radio interview with Zimpapers’ Star FM. “He’ll go to other places in the capital although he can’t go everywhere as it isn’t humanly possible. Therefore tickets are going to go on sale on the day he arrives.” The “30 Billion Concert” will also incorporate Ginimbi’s all-white VVIP party that will be hosted by South African TV personality, Boitumelo “Boity” Thulo. Some have questioned why Boity was chosen to be the host ahead of locals and Ginimbi explained saying they wanted to bring glitz and glam to the event. “We’re still discussing who should join Boity. But so far, she’s the only one. We chose Boity because we wanted to up the game. We didn’t want to do the ordinary, what people are used to,” said Ginimbi. If he does come, Jah Prayzah will finally get the chance to perform My Lilly, a track he featured Davido live. ExQ and dancehall chanter Killer T are some of the supporting acts for the show.