 Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau THE Zimbabwe Davis Cup team will have to wait until next year to try and play for promotion to the next group after they went down 1-4 to Poland in Sopot over the weekend in the Europe/Africa Group II second round tie. The team, led by captain Gwinyai Tongoona, included number one player Benjamin Lock, Takanyi Garanganga, Mark Chigaazira and Mehluli Sibanda. It was the same side that beat Turkey 3-1 at Harare Sports Club in February, in the first round to secure their place in the Group. However, Poland proved to be better than Zimbabwe when they took the second tie played on Saturday and Sunday in Sopot. Garanganga, who came in as the number two player for Zimbabwe, lost 2-6, 2-6 to number one player Kamil Majchrzak in the opening singles match of the contest before Lock beat Poland’s number two player Michal Przysiezny 7-5, 7-5 to keep Zimbabwe on course. Garanganga and Lock teamed up to face the pair of Lukasz Kubot and Marcin Matkowski in the doubles and they lost 3-6, 3-6 in straight sets. In the reverse singles Lock lost to Machrzak 3-6, 2-6 while Mark Chigaazira suffered a 3-6, 4-6 defeat at the hands of Daniel Michalski in the dead rubber. “It was always going to be tough for us. Poland have a strong team and even after they lost one of their two top players (Hubert Hurkacz) the one who played singles in his place was very good,” said Tongoona. “Benjamin had to play well to win that match. Takanyi played okay but because he hadn’t played matches for a while, he just fell a bit short. ”Mark did well in the dead rubber match, he played. It was a good performance overall from everyone,” said Tongoona. Hurkacz, ranked 178, was ruled out of this tie due to an injury. With Zimbabwe relying mainly on Garanganga and Lock as the most experienced players in the team, Tongoona reckoned there was still a lot of work that needs to be done for more local players to compete at that level. “Yes, we have only Takanyi and Benjamin playing at that level so it does affect us a bit. We need to have players playing on tour at that level to win these types of match.