Kazembe Kazembe From Sikhumbuzo Moyo in Gweru THE Government has called for the branding of the annual Zimbabwe National Paralympic and Youth Games for the jamboree to be able to attract corporate sponsorship. Since their inception in 2003, the annual Games have failed to attract any sound sponsorship with funding coming mainly from Treasury and participation fees from provinces. In a speech read on his behalf by the director in the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Eugenia Chidhakwa during the  official opening of the two-day National Paralympic and Youth Games Assembly at the Midlands State University  in Gweru yesterday, Minister Raymond Kazembe said  it was sad to note that since their inception the Games remained naked in terms of corporate branding. “I am aware that these Games are a tool for creating inclusive communities whereupon we collectively shun stigmatisation according to disability but rather embrace each other as a people. It is my reflection that efforts need to be applied in terms of event branding. It is sad to note that since the inception of the Zimbabwe National Youth and Paralympic Games, the Games have remained naked in terms of corporate branding. It is my absolute conviction that we all agree that corporate branding in event management is an essential marketing tool and vehicle for further sponsorship opportunities,” said Minister Kazembe. He called on the organisers of the event to adhere to strict tenets of good corporate governance if they entertain any chances of hosting a successful event and said sport codes that participate at the Games should be compliant with the Sport and Recreation Commission Act. “In this regard, my Ministry will avail resources to support the refurbishment and revamping of sports and recreation facilities to be utilised in this edition of the Games,” said Minister Kazembe. He challenged the delegates to make resolutions that will pave the way for a successful version of the Games that will be the pride of the nation.