Minister Prisca Mupfumira Prince Sunduzani, Business Reporter GOVERNMENT has approved a budget for heritage tourism in a development expected to accelerate the drive to diversify the country’s tourism earnings. The Minister of Tourism and Hospitality Industry, Prisca Mupfumira, made the announcement from Dubai where she is attending the Arabian Travel Market. She said the undisclosed budget was in response to submissions by her ministry, which had identified Zimbabwe liberation war sites that need to be memorialised as the country’s history is being packaged. “We received news of the exciting development that Government had approved the budget submitted by my ministry for the enshrinement programme. I had put this long overdue project as part of my 100 days programme and my team and I are elated by the allocation of resources to enable us to embark on this project,” she said in a statement. “For the 100 days programme we have prioritised five sites, namely, the Chinhoyi battle site and the Seven Heroes burial site (Chinhoyi), Trabablas Trail (Masvingo), Pupu Shangani (Matabeleland North), Old Bulawayo Site (Bulawayo) and Tangwena Village (Manicaland).” Minister Mupfumira said work had already begun with the National Museums and Monuments of Zimbabwe (NMMZ) working on the Chinhoyi battle site. “Following the allocation of the resources, work is set to commence on the development of the four sites. Already work has started at the Chinhoyi Battle Site where the executing agency, National Museums and Monuments of Zimbabwe (NMMZ), has commenced site mobilisation,” said the Minister. NMMZ Director, Dr Godfrey Mahachi, said: “Our teams have already moved in to commence works. We would like to thank the Government for availing the much needed resources to embark on the projects. As National Museums and Monuments of Zimbabwe we are extremely excited and indeed honoured to be executing the project. “Since the beginning of the 100 days, we have met with different stakeholders and partners as an enshrinement committee, conducted several site visits and planning missions to Chinhoyi and the other sites”. The development comes as interest in Zimbabwe as a tourist destination is high, with the world responding positively to the new dispensation. Heritage tourism is getting increasingly popular with the travelling public who seek to gain more understanding of the history and culture as well as the people in the destinations visited. Minister Mupfumira earlier this year said Government would develop museums around heritage sites as Zimbabwe ensures its heritage is preserved while offering tourists a diversity of attractions. — @PrinceNkosy102