Cde Simon Khaya Moyo Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent THE elevation of Zimbabwe’s relations with China to the level of comprehensive strategic partnership means that the country stands to benefit immensely from technology transfer from the Asian economic giant, a Cabinet Minister has said. President Mnangagwa last week visited China on a five-day State visit where he met with Chinese President Xi Jinping and toured Chinese industries, opening investment opportunities for the country. In an interview, the acting Minister of Media, Information and Broadcasting Services Ambassador Simon Khaya Moyo said the Chinese trip was an eye opener for Zimbabwe as it gave Government pointers on how to achieve its middle income status target by 2030. “We did visit a number of challenging institutions and very challenging companies where we could see that some technology transfer could benefit us. So it was truly an eye opener but at the same time an opportunity to re-emphasise that Zimbabwe was open for business,” said Ambassador Khaya Moyo. “It was a very productive trip, it was a very successful trip. It was one of the best trips I’ve ever participated in. Although China has always been our all weather friend, this visit elevated this friendship to a comprehensive strategic partnership. “That means there is more facilitation in terms of loans and grants for both sides and also in terms of development when it comes to that comprehensive strategic partnership.” He said Zimbabweans based in China could also accelerate technology transfer when they return home. “We did also meet our students and professionals in China who are very keen and expressed enthusiasm to come back home to participate in our economic development agenda,” the Minister said. Ambassador Khaya Moyo, who doubles as the Minister of Energy and Power Development, said Chinese companies are keen to invest in the country’s energy sector. He said the Chinese were keen on investing in the Batoka Hydro Electricity project while also pouring resources into solar power projects. “We’re very happy about their enthusiasm not only in power generation but in a number of economic projects. At the moment we don’t have enough power, not even the region has sufficient power. We’re importing about 300 megawatts,” Ambassador Khaya Moyo said. He said power generation is critical in stimulating economic growth and enabling the country to achieve its developmental agenda. “The more power we have the less imports we shall need. In other words we might eliminate imports completely. And that avails more power to industry, to agriculture, all economic ventures and naturally once you do that the economy grows. There is no economy which can grow without power. It’s a vital enabler to economic growth,” said Ambassador Khaya Moyo. He said the country has not set a time timeframe to see the fruition of the projects. “Development has no time frame. As the President said we need to be a middle income country by 2030. But obviously development is not an event, it’s a process. The quicker the projects are undertaken the better,”  Ambassador Khaya Moyo said. @nqotshili