 Mthabisi Tshuma in Gwanda ABOUT 100 Gwanda women were awarded certificates after completing a one week entrepreneurship training programme hosted here by Homelink Financial Services. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) subsidiary partnered the Harare Institute of Technology (HIT) to roll out the programme in the Matabeleland South capital to empower young businesses under the Women Entrepreneurship Development Training (WEDT). The initiative is designed to help women start business and build their capacity as future business leaders. Homelink Financial Services sales manager, Ms Sibusisiwe Mashoko, said WEDT was being extended countrywide to capacitate women entrepreneurs in the fight against poverty and enhancing economic growth. “Investments in women are now widely recognized as crucial to achieving sustainable development and economic analysts say low levels of education and training, poor health and nutritional status and limited access to resources not only adversely affect women’s quality of life but limit productivity and hinder economic efficiency and growth,” said Ms Mashoko. She said the WEDT programme would be rolled out to every province and district in the country targeting women with strong desire to venture into business. Following the training, women are expected to submit viable business project proposals, which will be funded by Homelink and RBZ. Participants paid tribute to Homelink for facilitating the workshop, which covered a range of topics such as basic management, how to pitch a success business proposal, marketing and finance handling among others. Young entrepreneur Ms Evelyn Rugava said the initiative came at the right time. “It has taught us as women how to manage our small scale businesses especially when it comes to finances, which we usually divert for personal use leading to the collapse of business,” she said. “In future we will be able to manage our finances properly, which will keep our businesses running.” A University of Zimbabwe (UZ) graduate Ms Gugulethu Mnkandla said the programme gave her  skills to create employment for others. “Through the training l have acquired and the funding l hope to receive, l aim to open up a business that a employ other graduates,” she said. Another participant Ms Zanele Nyathi said the programme was a timely intervention for women. “It was very educative and important such that women in Gwanda who attended the workshop benefited a lot as they are able to come up with business plans that will be accepted by financial institutions,” she said. @mthabisi_mthire