Minister of State for Midlands Province Owen Ncube addresses delegates during the National Youth and Paralympics Games general assembly at the Midlands State University yesterday From Sikhumbuzo Moyo in Gweru THE 2018 edition of the Zimbabwe National Paralympic and Youth Games will be held at an opportune time when the country will be celebrating the success of the historic revolution that ushered in a new political dispensation led by President Emmerson  Mnangagwa. The Games will be held in August. Speaking during the National Youth and Paralympic Games general assembly at the Midlands State University yesterday, the Provincial Affairs Minister for Midlands, Owen Ncube, said  the peace, unity and love that was exhibited during the execution of Operation Restore Legacy last year must continue to be shown during the preparations and even the hosting of the Games. “These Games will be hosted at the opportune time as we would be popping our last bottles of champagne celebrating the success of the historic revolution of Operation Restore Legacy which ushered in a new political dispensation under the visionary leadership of his Excellency the Commander in Chief of the Defence Forces, Emmerson  Dambudzo  Mnangagwa. I want to express my sincere thanks and robust appreciation to our gallant sons and daughters of the defence forces under the command of our most highly decorated Commander Retired General Constantino Guvheya Chiwenga who brought in the new dispensation. The people’s revolution was executed in peace, unity and tranquillity and that love that galvanised all of us still prevails and should be used to promote and develop the forthcoming National Paralympics and Youth Games,” said Minister Ncube. He told delegates who included the Games’ provincial managers from eight geographical provinces and the seven virtual provinces that the Assembly’s objective was to reflect on the management of the previous Games, share experiences and craft effective and efficient strategies that will help Midlands host successful and memorable Games.  Only Masvingo and Bulawayo provinces did not attend the Assembly and no reason was given for their absence. “We are proud that Midlands province has been honoured to host the 2018 edition of the Zimbabwe National Paralympic and Youth Games in August this year. I am excited that you are gathered here as leaders of various teams that will compete for prestigious awards. I am told that the primary objective of this indaba is to look into your view mirrors, reflect on the management of the previous Games, share experiences and craft effective and efficient strategies so that the Midlands province hosts the best ever youth Games in the country and as the patron of sports in the province let me assure you that we will deliver the most memorable Games ever,” said Minister Ncube.