Tendai Chikuni Lovemore Zigara in Gweru Chapungu 1-0 Herentals BASTOS Chihowa’s direct goal from a corner kick was the highlight of this Castle Lager Premiership match between Chapungu and Herentals at Ascot Stadium in Gweru yesterday. The win came as a relief to the Air Force of Zimbabwe side who last collected maximum points on the first day of the season. The first half was a dull affair, with no meaningful goal scoring chances being created, except for a  missed opportunity by Herentals owner Innocent Benza. The second half was more lively after both teams made some tactical substitutions and it was the visitors who came close to scoring through Peter Chota, whose free kick was parried over the bar by keeper Talbert Shumba in the 48th minute. Brighton Mugoni who came in for Blessing Sibanda could have given Chapungu the advantage but shot wide from Marufu’s cross a minute later. After a glut of missed chances and with both teams seemingly content to sharing the spoils, Chihowa’s corner kick eluded the Herentals goalkeeper, who was badly positioned, into the back of the net. A relieved Chapungu coach Tendai Chikuni was happy with the win. “I am happy that we got our first win here at Ascot. We knew Herentals play long balls, that’s why we changed our play and decided to play a passing game. I am impressed by the win where Bastos (Chihowa) scored from a corner kick and that is what we were looking for,” said Chikuni. His counterpart, Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva blamed the defeat on loss of concentration by his charges. “We missed a lot of chances during the match, which we should have buried. We eventually got punished because we lost concentration during the last moments of the game and Chapungu had the endurance,” said Mutiwekuziva. Teams Chapungu: T Shumba, T Kumbuyani, C Mativenga, B Mbavarira, C Kwaramba, M Muchingami, I Nyoni (B Chihowa 52 min), E Muzanenhamo (T Chimoyo 68 min), A Tavarwisa, P Marufu, B Sahondo Herentals: K Magama, P Chota, C Mavhurume, B Majarira, W Chimbetu, W Kapumha, A Majarira, A Chiwandamidzi (T Benza 64 min), I Benza (J Mutudza 52 min), R Hachiro. — @lavuzigara1