Business Reporter NIGERIAN tour operators have committed to bringing tourism business into the country within the next 12 months. The Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) revealed this in a statement following a recent familiarisation tour of the country by the Nigerian delegation. The team visited Bulawayo, Hwange, and Victoria Falls. “The Nigerian tour operators that we hosted on an educational tour recently have signed commitment forms, which stated that they would send groups to Zimbabwe within the next 12 months,” said the authority’s chief executive officer, Mr Karikoga Kaseke. “The return on investment we expect from this group is high as they have already received favourable standard tour operator rates from the tourism industry in Zimbabwe and are planning packages for the July, August and September holidays. “We believe this is a major milestone pursuant to gaining ground in this untapped African market.” According to the Nigerian tour operators, Mr Kaseke said Zimbabwe was a hidden gem that tourists from the West African country would gladly grab. The ZTA boss said the commitment by Nigerians was a serious business development coming from a market with more than 180 million people. Meanwhile, Mr Kaseke bemoaned the absence of market representation in Nigeria  which he said was a major hindrance to tapping into the Nigerian market. “It is appalling to note that South Africa received 50 921 arrivals in 2017 (from Nigeria) down from 65 599 in 2016 while we received just 1 979 in 2017 down from 2 641 in 2016. “Clearly our own figures are a joke in comparison to South Africa but it is because their tourism is prioritised and well resourced besides the fact that they also have daily flights from Nigeria. “South Africa has its representatives in their tourist office who are stationed in Nigeria to promote South Africa in Nigeria. “We have nothing of that nature so surely how do we expect to get tourists from there,” he said. ZTA continues to unpack various programmes to lure tourists from across Africa and the globe, a confirmation that Zimbabwe is open for business.