 Nyaradzo Bakari, Chronicle Reporter FIVE Mthwakazi Republic Party activists have appeared in court for allegedly assaulting two men after accusing them of squandering their money meant to buy residential stands. Thembani Moyo (28) from Cowdray Park suburb, Sukoluhle Ncube (33) from Old Lobengula suburb, Ntombizodwa Sibanda (31) from Njube suburb, Mxolisi Mhlanga (33) from Magwegwe West suburb and Stanley Moyo (37) from New Lobengula suburb allegedly assaulted Mr Charles Magumisa and Mr Peter Matizha on Wednesday. Bulawayo magistrate, Mr Franklin Mkhwananzi, heard that the activists ganged up against Mr Magumisa and Mr Matizha, accusing them of squandering their money. The amount of money was not stated, but the five are alleged to have formed an association to pool resources together to buy some stands. Mr Mkhwananzi did not ask them to plead to assault charges yesterday. He remanded them out of custody to next Friday for trial. Mhlanga was also charged with criminal insult for insulting a police officer who asked for his identification particulars at the police station. He was remanded out of custody to the same date on that charge. Prosecuting, Mr Nkathazo Dlodlo said the five assaulted the complainants on Wednesday at Tower Block. “On April 4, the accused persons approached the complainants and accused them of converting their association’s money meant for residential stands to their own use,” he said. Mr Dlodlo said Mhlanga insulted Constable Tazvitya Mudzingwa using obscenities after he asked him to produce identification documents. The MRP activists have recently been disturbing National Peace and Reconciliation Consultative meetings. In January, the activists appeared in court for protesting at a prayer session at the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair attended by President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Recently, the Minister of Home Affairs and Culture, Dr Obert Mpofu, warned the activists that they face arrest if they continue disrupting national programmes as their actions violate other people’s rights to be heard.—@NyarieBakie