President Emmerson Mnangagwa MESSAGE FROM HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE AND THE PATRON OF THE ZIMBABWE INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR ON THE OCCASION OF THE 59TH EDITION OF THE ZIMBABWE INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Zimbabwe, and indeed on my own behalf as Patron of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF), I am delighted to welcome all distinguished exhibitors, visitors and invited guests to the 59th Edition of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF 2018). The ZITF remains an important platform to promote trade and investment for Zimbabwe, and is quite strategic under the new economic order of Government. The theme for ZITF 2018, “Sustainable Industrial Development: Inclusive-Competitive-Collaborative” articulates an important pillar of the new trajectory that has prioritised industrialisation to contribute to sustained economic recovery of Zimbabwe. The Government is making significant strides to put in place and effect viable policies and strategies to improve the business operating environment and address challenges that have affected industrial development and growth. Attracting both domestic and foreign investments, mobilising funding for industrial development, supporting the agriculture and mining sectors, and infrastructure development, are key priority areas of focus expected to help attain sustained economic growth and development. I wish to reiterate that Zimbabwe is Open for Business. Both domestic and foreign investors are welcome to invest and do business in Zimbabwe and tap the diverse opportunities offered by all sectors of industry including investing in Special Economic Zones and infrastructure development. Allow me to assure and guarantee investors of incentives and protection of their investments. The Government remains ready to continuously engage with all stakeholders including the business sector with a view to further improve the business operating environment. May I encourage industry, commerce and small and medium enterprises to remain resolute, expand operations and explore export market opportunities in the region and beyond in order to generate foreign exchange which is critical to support industrialisation. Zimbabwe remains committed to regional integration under Comesa, Sadc and the Africa Union, among other bilateral and regional trading arrangements. Allow me to encourage participants, both domestic and foreign, to be resolute in tapping the numerous trade and investment opportunities that Zimbabwe offers to the world in various sectors. May I wish you all successful exhibition and business engagements at this year’s ZITF. I thank you. His Excellency E.D. Mnangagwa PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE