Cesar Azpilicueta opened the scoring for the hosts and dedicated his goal to the club’s former England midfielder Ray Wilkins, who died on Wednesday, aged 61. Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A 23-YEAR-OLD Chelsea fan from Plumtree is battling for life in the Intensive Care Unit at the United Bulawayo Hospitals after he was stabbed following a misunderstanding over English Premier Soccer results. Casper Ndlovu (22) of Dingumuzi village allegedly stabbed Consider Sibanda of Gasaza area once on the left side of his chest with a kitchen knife. Ndlovu was allegedly incensed by Sibanda’s “excessive celebration” when Chelsea scored against West Ham United on Sunday. He followed him to a bar and stabbed him hours after the match ended on a 1-1 score line. The incident occurred at around 10PM on Sunday at Siphosenkosi Bar at Dingumuzi Business Centre. A patron who was at the bar, Mr Nicholas Ncube, said the two got into a heated argument after one of the soccer teams had scored. “The two men were drinking beer while watching soccer at Siphosenkosi Bar at around 5PM. Sibanda celebrated a goal scored by César Azpilicueta for Chelsea and this did not go down well with Ndlovu, who supports West Ham. Ndlovu told him to leave the bar but he refused. “Ndlovu went to where Sibanda was seated and they shoved each other for a while.  When Sibanda refused to leave, an annoyed Ndlovu decided to leave himself,” he said. Mr Ncube said at around 10PM, Ndlovu returned to the bar and attacked Sibanda saying their “war” was not yet over. “He drew a kitchen knife from his trouser pockets and stabbed Sibanda once. He fled from the bar soon after committing the crime. The injured was rushed to hospital while villagers apprehended the suspect.” Sibanda bled profusely before collapsing and was rushed to Plumtree District Hospital from where, because of his serious condition, he was transferred to the United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) where he is admitted. Matabeleland South acting police spokesperson Assistant Inspector Loveness Mangena confirmed the attempted murder incident. She said the suspect was arrested and will appear in court soon. “I can confirm receiving a report of attempted murder where a man stabbed another following a misunderstanding that arose in a bar. He was stabbed once in the chest and is battling for life at the United Bulawayo Hospitals. The suspect was arrested and will be appearing in court soon,” said Asst Insp Mangena. She warned members of the public against fighting over petty issues as it often results in unnecessary injuries and loss of lives. “People should learn to engage third parties when in disputes especially those that arise after drinking beer. People resort to violence without clear thinking, only to regret their actions when they sober up,” said Asst Insp Mangena. @winnie_masara