Fairness Moyana in Hwange HWANGE Rural District Council has begun a process of issuing sitting tenants at its Dete Township with title deeds to their properties after it called for an evaluator to carry out title survey, conveyance and evaluation. The council on Monday placed a notice in the mainstream media calling for tenders for companies to provide services in title surveying and evaluation of its properties. The process had suffered a stillbirth four years ago after individuals who were supposed to benefit from the transfer of houses to sitting tenants, failed to contribute towards the hiring of an evaluator. However according to recent developments, council re-engaged the sitting tenants after a resolution to transfer 500 houses to sitting tenants. The properties in question used to belong to National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ). Hwange RDC chief executive officer, Mr Phindile Ncube, said preparations towards issuance of title deeds to sitting tenants in the township were at an advanced stage. “We are in the process of giving title deeds to the properties which would enable owners to use the houses as collateral when getting say loans from banks. “There have been challenges here and there in processing the deeds. However, after engagements and discussions they agreed to contribute towards the fees for the title deeds survey,” he said. “The houses were on lease and initially belonged to NRZ and a resolution was passed that sitting tenants benefit. So we recently flighted an advert in the media calling for an evaluator.” Mr Ncube said the survey would also extend to cover undeveloped stands. He said the delay in processing the title deeds was caused by the residents’ initial refusal to contribute money for survey fees. Ward councillor, Edward Nkomo said the move was a welcome development. “The major challenge in acquiring the title deeds was finance. Council said they didn’t have the money to finance the process. At one point they approached the residents to contribute but they refused. Now that the residents have agreed to pay, we hope it will not be long before they get the title deeds,” he said.