Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter A recollection of the story about the liberation struggle which brought the country’s independence in 1980 will not be complete without talking about the contribution of the church. During the war of liberation in Zimbabwe, the church was at some stage criticised for not being vocal enough or appearing to be on the side of the oppressors especially looking at the early churches introduced in Africa by missionaries. With the first missions to be established in the country being Inyathi and Hope Fountain, it was felt that mission schools served the interests of the colonisers and the settler regime. This is despite the fact that most nationalists and liberation war leaders learnt at some of the missionary schools. As the old adage goes that “the flag followed the cross”, the majority were not amused by the way they were treated by the settler regime which initially came as missionaries. However, some churches and missions supported the struggle for independence, particularly the rural ones where they voiced strong criticism of the minority rule. Some went to the extent of indigenising their leadership, church services and forms of worship to win the hearts of locals who had shown discontent. It is then that some indigenous churches sprouted across the country as Zimbabweans, then Rhodesians, sought to complement the fight by freedom fighters. The minority government of Ian Smith closely monitored blacks’ movement and put a curfew to limit gatherings so as to deflate the struggle. Blacks resorted to church where they would meet for services and in the process spread the word and preach about freedom and liberty from oppression. Sometimes people would epitomise a funeral church service with a coffin so that whenever Smith’s police or soldiers arrived they would believe that it was a funeral wake. In an interview, one of the senior indigenous church leaders in Victoria Falls, Reverend Africa Jubane of the African Methodist Church said the local church equally fought the war. Probably not really recognised despite his contribution to the struggle where he was Zapu district political commissar in the Southern Province in Zambia where he was responsible for recruitment, Rev Jubane stands tall as one of the people who through the church, fought the struggle from a non-military wing. He said he recruited a number of notable names in the struggle for independence as he would help them cross into Zambia as well as assist to transport freedom fighters to the war front in the company of Cde Lizard “Jonson Fletcher” Sibanda who had a car. During that time, he worked with a number of freedom fighters both late and living, among them liberation stalwart Cde Jane Ngwenya who two years ago said she misses Independence Day celebrations as she is holed up at Coronation Old People’s Home in Bulawayo. The two met in Tanzania in 1973, Rev Jubane recollected. “I was firstly a part of the Seventh Day Adventist Church growing up and left because I differed with the ideology the church taught. I wanted a church that would enable me to be independent as an African. My interest in church was independence and I went to the African Methodist Church because of their philosophy which enabled me to be fully involved in politics, which I couldn’t do in the white led churches,” said Rev Jubane. He said liberation war leaders such as the late Vice President Dr Joshua Nkomo used to visit different African churches to worship with the majority blacks where the gospel of freedom was preached. Rev Jubane said blacks were not free to worship hence the independence attained in 1980 did not bring political freedom only but freedom of worship as well. “We were not free to worship because the colonialists believed that the struggle was organised in the churches. Somehow they were right because our leaders would also visit the churches to talk to people. I remember the late Dr Nkomo going to Sengwayo (Church) in Bulawayo. “In short, when it comes to independence, all churches should think the same. I believe we’re all happy be it politicians or church leaders because we’re led by our own people,” he said. Rev Jubane said it is important to note that God wants his people to liberate themselves. He referred to Zimbabwe’s liberation history to the story of the Israelites led by Moses saying the people need God’s intervention to defeat the enemy. Rev Jubane said the church is fully behind the new political dispensation ushered in by President Emerson Mnangagwa late last year. “As church leaders, it’s our duty to encourage people to observe independence and remain united as a country. @ncubeleon