Powertel’s network coverage The ZITF Main Theme: Sustainable Industrial Development. Inclusive. Competitive. Collaborative Interviewee: Mr Prosper Mutswiri (PM) Position:Head of Marketing& Sales Q1. Kindly elighten Zimbabwe on your business as Powertel Communications – who are you and which market segments do you serve as a business? PM: Powertel Communications is a wholly owned subsidiary of the ZESA Holdings Group offering innovative Information and Communication Technology Products – much simply put, Internet (Fixed and Mobile), Voice (on 08611 also Fixed and Mobile), Connectivity solutions for SMEs, Corporates, and even individuals. These include the likes of Carrier services (wholesale bandwidth), Virtual Private Networking and Fleet Management Solutions. We also offer aggregation services for the Powerplus Prepaid Electricity brand – a role we take seriously in delivering on our mandate to ensure convenience in access to multiple forms of topping up our prepaid electricity meters – our driving mantra is #magetsikwesekwese; Amagetsiyonkindawo! The Powertel stand at the ZITF OUR MARKET SEGMENTS: Business Corporates, Government and Non-Government, SMES Individuals- professionals, students and families Q2. The ZITF Theme this year is “Sustainable Industrial Development. Inclusive. Competitive. Collaborative.” How does PowertelCommunications fit into this theme? PM: We have seen a huge global shift towards the internet of things – all things are now connected seamlessly through digital connections and thus Powertel is driving the digital revolution in Zimbabwe. This we as a business are achieving through availing relevant but reliable and affordable Information Communication Technology products and services that empower businesses and individuals to create and pass on value for their businesses, families and for themselves. THE POWERTEL THEME IS THUS: INNOVATIVE DIGITAL SOLUTIONS FOR INDUSTRIAL GROWTH Q3. Talking of value creation, which new products and services does Powertel have to offer that will unlock value to industry and the nation as a whole? PM: Fleet Management Solutions – Stay on Track with Your Fleet. Offering a versatile fleet management and vehicle tracking solution – Powertrack guaranteed to cut costs of fleet administration and also minimise business losses. You can monitor your fleet round the clock anywhere within Zimbabwe and within the Southern African region with Powertrack – our fleet management solution. But we also invite even owners of houseboats in resort towns, to talk to us for a solution Benefits of Fleet Management:- ·    Realtime Vehicle Tracking ·    Driver Behaviour Monitoring ·    Fuel Management ·    Geo-fencing ·    Stolen Vehicle Recovery and much much more -    Powertel Enterprise VoIP- Save as much as 50 percent of your corporate telephone bill by using Powertel 08611 voice service for your business -    Powertel Reactivation Campaign-Get two weeks’ worth of unlimited data night surfing from 2000hrs-0600hrs when you topup your account with as little as 1Gb of data- only at Powertel Communications for our 08611 customers ; -    Pay less for more data-PowertelCommunications is the only provider that rewards you with more data for less on the market. Powertel through our PowerConnect Broadband mobile internet offering, gives you real value for money on the mobile internet packages – 2Gb will cost you a $1 where the same package will cost you nothing short of $20 with other service providers. Unlimited internet at Powertel starts at $2 for the Daily Package up to $40 for the whole month of unlimited uploads and downloads Q4. The worry for most consumers is network coverage. How wide is the network coverage for your services in Zimbabwe? PM: Powertel has over 5000 kms of fibre in Zimbabwe, thus for business, we are more than capable to provide them with service across the country. Much recently, we have finished running fibre in the town of Chegutu of which we are very excited as it was the only town along the Harare-Bulawayo Highway that had not been covered. -    On the mobile internet front, our customers can be assured that our coverage extends throughout the whole of Zimbabwe, from border to border – much recently we have launched a base station for mobile internet and voice services in Kariba. The scope of our coverage is thus includes:- -    Beitbridge, Hwange, Victoria Falls, Bulawayo, Gweru, Kwekwe, Kadoma, Norton, Harare, Chinhoyi, Bindura, Kariba, Marondera, Rusape and Mutare Q5. If one should want to sign up for the exciting services you have just mentioned – Where can we find Powertel service centres in Zimbabwe? PM: Our service centres are available in Harare (Joina City 2nd Floor), Bulawayo (Ground Floor Fidelity Life Towers), Mutare (First Mutual Centre) and in Gweru &Kwekwe you will find us within the ZETDC CBD service centres. In other towns and cities for instance in Kadoma, Chinhoyi and in Kariba, we leverage on existing collaborations with local distributors and dealers who offer the whole range of support including airtime and devices that are compatible with our network. Nationally, our airtime is also available through the following:- -    OK/Bon Marche Retail outlets -    Powersales Retail Outlets -    Ecocash- Biller code 94485 -    Online topup- www.topup.co.zw/Powertel -    Ndasenda agents Q6. In the not too distant future, what can your customers and Zimbabwe anticipate from you? PM: Powertel is an ongoing concern. We are in business for the long haul to give Zimbabwe relevant products and services that cater for their needs. We endeavour to continuously evolve and innovate in line with our customer’s and market needs. Q7. In parting, what is your Power statement to Zimbabwe? PM: We promise our customers value for money services modelled around continual improvement and a great customer experience. One thing for certain, Powertel is open for business!!