Dr Obert Mpofu Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter THE Registrar General’s Office is expected to open the Lupane provincial office this week following completion of the facility, Home Affairs and Culture Minister Dr Obert Mpofu has said. Dr Mpofu yesterday said the Government was committed to decentralising services for the benefit of citizens. “Infrastructure is now in place and what remains is relocation of officers to man the new offices. The actual commissioning will be done in the next few weeks if not days,” said Dr Mpofu. He assured people from Matabeleland North that the office, whose opening has been delayed for some years, will finally open as Government wants to bring service to people’s doorsteps. Dr Mpofu said his Ministry was working hand in glove with the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing to prepare accommodation facilities for staff. “We want officers to go where the job is because it is costly for Government to move them on a daily basis hence we are working closely with Public Works to make sure we have proper facilities,” he said. Over the years, people from Binga, Bubi, Hwange, Lupane, Nkayi, Tsholotsho and Umguza have been travelling to Bulawayo to apply for passports. Processing of documents such as birth and death certificates and National Identity cards started in Lupane last year following completion of the district offices. Community leaders in Matabeleland North province have commended the Government for finally opening the offices. Chief Mabhikwa of Lupane said: “This relocation was long overdue and will bring life to Lupane. We are very proud of the new political dispensation for such a development which will bring relief and serve not only interests of Lupane’s growth as a capital but the whole province.” He said some people were failing to travel to Bulawayo because of financial constraints. “People from parts of the province such as Binga, Hwange, parts of Lupane and Tsholotsho that are far from Bulawayo will obviously be very happy. I hope they will come in numbers for the official opening to show support and excitement,” said Chief Mabhikwa. He appealed to the Government to complete other outstanding projects such as Elitsheni Government Complex and the provincial hospital which are key to the growth of Lupane. “We appeal to the Government make sure that even Lupane State University is completed and has proper staff and students’ accommodation,” Chief Mabhikwa said. Chief Siansali of Binga called for decentralisation of the passport office to districts saying Binga people will still be affected because of a poor road network despite the latest developments. “This is a good move but Binga is still affected because of distance and a poor road network. As much as we applaud this good gesture, I feel we have to move away from making people travel long distances to access services. “We would want total decentralisation of the passport office to district offices where people can apply for the documents although processing can then be done elsewhere,” said Chief Siansali. @ncubeleon