Joey Antipas Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter BAOBAB Stadium in Mhondoro explodes into life tomorrow afternoon when Ngezi Platinum and Chicken Inn clash in a battle for top spot. The Bulawayo-based GameCocks will be eager to bring to a halt Ngezi Platinum’s run that has seen them go for an incredible 2 250 minutes without a loss at their home ground while in the four games they have played this season, their goalkeeper Donovan Bernard is yet to concede. Both teams have managed to hit the nets six times but Chicken Inn find themselves two points behind and third on the table by virtue of their 0-0 away draw to league debutants Nichrut on Week Two. Madamburo, as Ngezi Platinum coached by Tonderayi Ndiraya are known, have managed to score in all their four games played so far. It started with a 2-0 home win to another league debutant Herentals which was followed by a similar away win to Triangle United and next on their casualty list was fledging giants Dynamos whom they beat 1-0 at Baobab before grinding a hard fought 1-0 win over John Nyikadzino’s Nichrut at Ascot Stadium to help them open a two point gap at the top of the table. Despite their incredible start Chicken Inn gaffer, Joey Antipas, himself a shrewd tactician who has the advantage of tried and trusted veteran players, said they had not prepared any special approach to the encounter. He, however, conceded that the encounter will be a blood and thunder affair hence his boys have to fight. “We have no special preparations as such but we just have to go there and fight. We have to go there and have that same mentality like any other day. “We are fully aware, of course, that they are on top of the table and have maximum points and are tipped to win the league,” said Antipas who will be without the in form George Majika who was injured in their 3-0 home win against Shabanie Mine while Simon Munawa is a doubtful starter. “George Majika is definitely out, he was kicked badly when we played against Shabanie Mine. He has been in fine form but we hope to get able replacement for him and we are also monitoring Simon Munawa who was also injured in the same game,” said Antipas who has two championship titles in his stable, having won the first with now defunct Motor Action in 2010 before leading Chicken Inn to their maiden title in 2015. With battle-hardened veterans in Obadiah Tarumbwa, Moses Jackson, fluid midfielder Clemence Matawu and the reliable goalkeeper Elvis Chipezeze, Antipas might just be the man to bring Ndiraya back to mother earth. Barring any poor show by match officials, the encounter has all the ingredients of a thriller that can leave the spectators asking for more. Chicken Inn are yet to register a win over their opponents in the four games they have played since Ngezi Platinum gained promotion in 2016. The first encounter at Luveve Stadium ended 0-0 with Ngezi Platinum pulling a 2-1 win in the reverse fixture and last season they were not separated in 180 minutes of action following a nil all and 2-2 stalemates respectively. Week Five fixtures Tomorrow: Harare City v Bulawayo Chiefs (Rufaro), ZPC Kariba v Dynamos (Nyamhunga), Bulawayo City v Black Rhinos (Barbourfields), Yadah FC v  Triangle United (National Sports Stadium), Ngezi Platinum v Chicken Inn (Baobab). Sunday: Caps United v Herentals (National Sports Stadium), Shabanie Mine v Mutare City (Maglas Stadium), Chapungu v FC Platinum (Ascot Stadium), Highlanders v Nichrut (Barbourfields).