Rescue teams retrieve bodies from a collapsed section of Old Motapa Mine in Inyathi last week Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter POLICE have released the names of six people who died after a tunnel at disused Old Motapa Mine in Bubi District, Matabeleland North Province, caved-in last Thursday afternoon. National police spokesperson Chief Superintendent Paul Nyathi named the victims as; Agreement Moyo (31) of Alpha Alpha Village 3 at Lonely Mine in Inyathi, Mthokozisi Jele (41) of Maphatha Village at Fudu area in Nkayi, Sam Mpofu (25) of Kwekwe, Godknows Dube (20) of Makuwa Village under Chief Malisa in Silobela, Adam Ncube of Famona area in Inyathi and David Moyo of Douglas Compound in Inyathi. “Police and other responsible stakeholders who include the District Civil Protection Unit had mobilised the community to ensure that all open shafts in that area had been closed and police are currently monitoring the situation on the site,” he said. Rescue teams from Isabella Mine and How Mine retrieved five bodies from the tunnel on Friday while the sixth victim— who was among four who were rescued alive — died at Mpilo Central Hospital in Bulawayo on Saturday night. At least 15 people were feared dead following the collapse of the tunnel. On Wednesday, it was reported that about 300 illegal panners had swarmed the mine and sources said the number could have doubled at the time of the tragedy. Another panner died last week after another tunnel collapsed but this has not deterred the panners who continue to enter the tunnels despite the fact that they are now death traps. The other three panners who were working together with the panner who died last week, were buried up to their necks in sand but were later rescued. Villagers in the area have appealed to Metallon Gold mining company to re- open the mine to enable organised mining. There was another gold rush which attracted more than 500 illegal panners in Kenilworth last month. Last year, 13 police officers were convicted under the Police Act for engaging in illegal gold mining in the same area. Police prosecutors preferred charges ranging from criminal abuse of office, leaving their posts unattended and engaging in activities which violate the Police Act. @winnie_masara