Joey Antipas Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter CHICKEN Inn coach Joey Antipas has challenged his players to improve on their average start to the 2018 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League campaign if they are to seriously challenge for the title. The former champions were placed in the favourites basket by pundits before the start of the season, but they currently sit in fourth place on the league table, with 11 points from three wins, two draws and a loss. After opening their campaign with a 1-0 victory over fading Harare giants Dynamos, they followed up with an unimpressive 1-1 draw against Premiership new boys Nichrut at Ascot Stadium in Gweru. They bounced back to winning ways with two consecutive home victories, thrashing Shabanie Mine 3-0 and edging Premiership returnees Mutare City Rovers 1-0 at Luveve Stadium. The GameCocks fell 0-1 to title favourites Ngezi Platinum Stars a fortnight ago before Sunday’s thrilling 2-2 draw against the high-flying Highlanders’ “kids”. Chicken Inn trail table toppers FC Platinum by five points, although they will not be entirely worried by the gap as yet given that it’s still early days. However, Antipas feels there’s an urgent need to turn around their average performances. “It has not been a bad start and l believe we can do much better. We have played six games, won three, drew two and lost one, so l can say it has been an average start. I am confident that as the season progresses we will better our performances. We are still work in progress and we continue to work hard and improve on the start we have had,” said Antipas. “Right now, l think there is need to freshen up the squad. We have loads of experience in our team, but we lack that young blood. l believe we need to add some young players that will come in and deliver. Modern day football is all about pressing and countering, so there is need to have young players, who have that ability,” he said. Antipas won the PSL title with the GameCocks in 2015 before moving to South African National First Division side AmaZulu in 2016. Chicken Inn’s next match is against bottom-placed ZPC Kariba, who have only managed to get two points so far this season. The GameCocks will surely fancy this weekend’s encounter as an opportunity to return to winning ways. @innocentskizoe