 Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent ORGANISERS of the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe (MTZ) pageant have scrapped the A-Level certificate minimum academic requirement for aspiring models to participate in the competition as the provincial auditions gather momentum. MTZ patron Sarah Mpofu-Sibanda they had scrapped that requirement simply because they do not want to shut out people who would have failed to complete their studies for varying reasons. During Barbara Mzembi’s – the previous licence holder’s tenure, just like a job application, aspiring MTZ contestants were required to send in their curriculum vitae (CVs) accompanied by scanned copies of Advanced Level, diploma or degree qualifications to participate in the pageant. “Now, all we want is for the contestants to have a recognisable academic background. This means we want evidence that you learnt somewhere. “We’re doing this because we don’t want to shut out models who might have failed to complete their O-Levels but have the passion and looks for the industry. To disqualify them just because they don’t have the minimum requirements isn’t fair,” said Mpofu-Sibanda. She said aspiring models should “be aged between 18-24 years, 1,67 metres tall and above, have never given birth or known to have been pregnant at any given point. They should be unmarried, have no criminal record, no tattoo or highly visible marks and hold a valid Zimbabwean passport or identification card.” Bulawayo – being the host city for the national finals – will be the last to hold its regional finals. “The date for the Bulawayo auditions will be released at a later stage when all other provinces have held their auditions. This is because the city is the host of the national finals and we want all those who would’ve missed their regional auditions to come here for a last shot before the finals,” Mpofu-Sibanda said. The licence holder for the Bulawayo regional finals, Mpofu-Sibanda said, has since been identified. The regional auditions are a precursor to the national final where the Queen and first princess of each area will represent their province at the national finals. “We’re looking at having between 22 and 24 finalists vying for the crown at the national final. Bulawayo and Harare will have three finalists each because they are cosmopolitan provinces while the others will have two contestants each.” Meanwhile, auditions for contestants from Midlands begin in Kwekwe today. They will be held at King Solomon’s Hotel before moving to Gweru at the Fairmile Hotel tomorrow and being concluded in Zvishavane at Pote Hotel on Sunday.