Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter INVESTORS from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) are prepared to venture into strategic partnership with Zimbabwean businesses. In an interview at the just ended Zimbabwe International Trade Fair in Bulawayo last week, Lualaba Chamber of Commerce president Mr Musuil Xavier said: “Business people should take advantage of the cordial relations that exist between the two countries and enter into strategic partnerships that will enable a win-win situation. “In the DRC, there are vast opportunities which Zimbabwean businesspeople can tap into. For example, they can invest in sectors such as agriculture, mining, manufacturing, transport, construction and tourism”. He said Lualaba Chamber of Commerce has received a number of enquiries from Zimbabwe businesses particularly those in the construction sector. “After the trade fair, Lualaba Chamber of Commerce will be making follow-ups to enquiries made during the ZITF so that they are converted into real business deals and promote a win-win situation between the investors in both countries,” said Mr Xavier. He said Zimbabwean businesspeople should also take advantage of the huge market that exists in the DRC given the fact that the Congolese nation has a total population of 80 million. Mr Xavier said his organisation would also organise a business tour to scout for investment opportunities in Zimbabwe. He said this was his first time to attend the ZITF adding that he was impressed by the quality of products that have been exhibited. Since coming into power in November 2017, the new political administration has declared that the country is open for business. Government is also working tirelessly to improve its relations with the international community in order to attract foreign direct investment. “We really appreciate the efforts that the new Government in Zimbabwe is doing to improve its relations with the international community. We hope this will also go a long way in facilitating economic recovery in Zimbabwe,” said Mr Xavier. President Mnangagwa last week announced that the country has since November last year approved more than $11 billion worth of foreign direct investment. @okazunga