Joey Antipas Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter CHICKEN Inn coach Joey Antipas has ruled out complacency from his side when they take on Yadah FC in a Premier Soccer League match at Luveve Stadium this afternoon. Yadah blew away Chicken Inn’s title hopes last season, beating the 2015 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League champions 2-1 in Bulawayo. Chicken Inn, the only Bulawayo Premiership side that will be playing in the city this weekend as Highlanders, Bulawayo Chiefs and Bulawayo City are away, will be hoping to end their three-match winless run. Chicken Inn last recorded a win on April 4 when they beat Shabanie Mine 3-0 at home. They went on to lose 1-0 away to Ngezi, drew 2-2 with Highlanders in a Bulawayo derby and last week they played to an away 1-1 draw against ZPC Kariba. “We’re prepared for the game. One thing I’ve been telling my players is that there is no room for complacency. We haven’t picked maximum points for three games. We’re going into this game with determination. “I’ll also ring some changes as we try to get a winning formula. Our biggest downfall so far has been our defence which has been letting in soft goals. Lack of concentration and making wrong decisions at the back has been costly,” said Antipas. Chicken Inn welcome back winger George Majika from injury but  will be without the injured duo of striker Obriel Chirinda and defender Ben Nyahunzwi. Veterans Clemence Matawu, Obidiah Tarumbwa, Simon Munawa, Moses Jackson and Passmore Bernard are expected to lead their  fight for maximum points. They, however, should be wary of Yadah who have gone for four games without a victory having last collected maximum points on March 29 when they beat Black Rhinos 3-1. Meanwhile, Bulawayo Chiefs will be out for their first away victory when they take on Black Rhinos in Harare this afternoon. Chiefs go into the game bubbling with confidence following their inspirational 2-0 home win against defending champions, FC Platinum. In their last four away games, Chiefs have managed to pick two points from a possible 12. “We’ve been playing well and I think we’re getting to where we want to be in terms of being match fit. Obviously the win against FC Platinum lifted the players’ confidence but that result is history and we have to focus on the Rhinos game and hope for the best,” said Chiefs technical analyst and fitness trainer, Thulani Sibanda. Ailing Harare giants, Dynamos, face Bulawayo City in a bottom of the table clash at Rufaro Stadium tomorrow. Both DeMbare and City coaches, Lloyd Mutasa and Darlington Dodo are under pressure for maximum points, with the latter set to lose his job should his team draw or lose to Dynamos. Dodo was given a target of 34 points by his team and has to win the next 10 games to save his job. Mutasa on the other hand has been given a three-match ultimatum to get positive results and save his job. Fixtures Today: Mutare City Rovers v FC Platinum (Vengere), Black Rhinos v Bulawayo Chiefs (Rufaro), Herentals v Harare City (National Sports Stadium), Nichrut FC v Caps United (Ascot), Chicken Inn v Yadah FC (Luveve), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Highlanders (Baobab), Shabanie Mine v ZPC Kariba (Maglas) Tomorrow: Dynamos v Bulawayo City (Rufaro), Triangle United v Chapungu (Gibbo)