Danisa Masuku MOTIVATIONAL speaker and author Jonah Nyoni has penned his third book titled, Speak like a Pro, which is meant to equip communicators with communication skills so as to become effective public speakers. Nyoni said his debut book titled, Inspiration for Success, which opened a number of doors for him, inspired him to write this third book. “My first book was well received in the market. More than 800 copies were sold and as a result, I was invited by company executives to speak to their employees. “I also won a scholarship to do a certificate in leadership in South Africa,” he said. This 100-page book is aimed at equipping and building educationists, managers, Masters of Ceremony, students, legislators and ordinary members of the public to become effective communicators. Most people are gripped with stage fright when they are about to present a speech to a large number of people so this book comes in handy as it equips one with relevant tips to ward off fear and have confidence. In the book, Nyoni points out that preparation is key in communication. “One has to research widely on a topic that he or she will be presenting on. It is also important to gather information such as objectives, vision and mission statement of the company, as this will help one to be relevant on the topic that he or she would be hired to speak on at the company,” he said. The book has important tips such as mastering your voice, structuring a speech, learning the art of speaking among many tips that are contained. It also inspires the reader to speak with confidence and have clarity on various platforms. “When one is speaking in public, he or she has to connect with his/her audience and the language should be simple and easy to understand so as not to confuse the audience. And one has to know his or her strengths and weaknesses and try to work on turning weaknesses into strengths.” Practice makes perfect and as such, in the book, Nyoni said: “Before attending, it is important to rehearse the speech at home and prune negative things that could be an impediment in the delivery of the speech.”