 Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent LUPANE State University (LSU) has complied with a High Court ruling ordering the institution’s management to reverse a decision to relocate students and lecturers in the Department of Development Studies from Bulawayo to its Lupane campus. Students at LSU on Monday commenced lectures in Bulawayo in compliance with the High Court order. LSU lecturers last week approached the Bulawayo High Court challenging the institution’s decision ordering them to relocate to the university’s Lupane site without providing adequate accommodation. Bulawayo High Court Judge Justice Nicholas Mathonsi ruled in the lecturers’ favour and the decision benefitted disgruntled students who had already moved to the Lupane site. In an interview yesterday, LSU’s director of marketing and communication Mr Zwelithini Dlamini said the university has complied with the court order. “We have complied with the court directive. Lectures resumed here today as ordered by the court ruling. As we speak classes are in session here in town,” said Mr Dlamini. He said the court ruling affected the institution’s operations as it will release more money towards payment of rentals. Mr Dlamini said it was the university’s hope that by July they will complete the relocation exercise. “There are resources that have to be expended towards the exercise. That’s the dimension which is being brought about. However, we should be able to permanently move. The suspended relocation will give us time to adequately prepare for the final relocation,” said Mr Dlamini. He recently revealed that the relocation exercise would result in the university saving nearly $11 000 a month in rentals. LSU, which has been operating from Bulawayo since its establishment in 2005, embarked on a relocation exercise to its main campus in Lupane. However, the relocation has been marred with controversy with interested players saying the university’s management rushed the exercise. The relocation exercise has resulted in students rioting against the management protesting a poor diet, shortage of accommodation and a non-conducive learning environment. The management has insisted that the relocation exercise would in the long run improve the running of the institution as more resources will be channelled towards its developmental agenda. @nqotshili