Winnie Madikizela-Mandela Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent WOMEN activists in Zimbabwe are set to conduct a memorial service to celebrate the life of anti-apartheid stalwart, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who died on Monday. The death of Madikizela-Mandela (81), ex-wife to the late South African President Nelson Mandela in a South African hospital after a long illness has plunged South Africa into mourning with Zimbabweans also grieving her passing on. The chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee Chairperson for Women and Youths Affairs Ms Priscilla Misihairabwi-Mushonga said as women they will hold a memorial service to honour the South African liberation icon. Ms Misihairabwi-Mushonga said the memorial service would be attended by an official from the ANC Women’s League. “You may want to know that we are planning as the women’s activists/the feminist movement to have a memorial service for the late Winnie to celebrate her. And we have spoken to the Ambassador of South Africa. We are in the process of organising because we would want some women from the ANC Women’s League to come and speak about her life,” Ms Misihairabwi-Mushonga. She said the date for the memorial service is yet to be advised but will be done after Madikizela-Mandela has been buried. Ms Misihairabwi-Mushonga said the anti-apartheid icon’s death is an awakening call for activists to redefine their action call. “Her death is a heavy blow to many of us. Her death has educated us to re-think about what we need to do to celebrate the heroines of the struggles that we had. We recognise her and celebrate her,” said Ms Misihairabwi Mushonga. She said she would lobby Parliament to send a delegation to attend her burial. Ms Misihairabwi-Mushonga said Madikizela-Mandela should be celebrated not because of her links to the late Cde Mandela but for the ideals she stood for. The Minister of State for Bulawayo Provincial Affairs, Cde Angelina Masuku, said Madikizela Mandela could have given up when her husband was jailed but driven by desire to see a liberated South Africa, she fought on. She said her death is not just a loss for South Africans but the whole continent as she stood against the oppression of blacks in general and women in particular. “She fought for the liberation of her country. She fought for the emancipation of women and fought to emancipate black people. Therefore, we honour her for her bravery as she continued with the struggle while her husband was in jail for 27 years,” she said. Cde Masuku said Madikizela-Mandela’s commitment should be emulated especially by the youths as she pursued her agenda for the freedom of the masses. — @nqotshili