 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE stage is set for today’s international amateur boxing tournament which will feature Zimbabwean and Botswana pugilists at Bulawayo’s Sizinda South Beer Garden. Botswana are sending 10 amateurs to the national tournament organised by Sizinda South Beer Garden in partnership with the Zimbabwe National Army and Zimbabwe Boxing Federation. Donald Ndebele, Sizinda South Beer Garden spokesperson said they have also entered into partnerships with local organisations to make today’s tournament a success. “We’re ready for the tournament and we are expecting at least 60 bouts. The fights are likely to go all the way through the night and we’ve found partners who are providing flood lights while others have agreed to cover the judges and referees’ costs as well as participants’ meals. It is our hope as Sizinda South Beer Garden that this national tournament which has attracted foreign participants will be ably supported by the Bulawayo community,” said Ndebele. Stephen Masiyambumbi, the country’s amateur boxing technical director, said Zimbabwe will use the competition to prepare for next month’s Youth Olympics Qualifiers to be held in Morocco. “All the country’s 10 provinces are expected to be joined by the ZNA School of Sports for this tournament which we’re using to identify boxers for national teams. Botswana are bringing their youth team to assess their progression as they prepare for the Africa Union Sports Council (AUSC) Region 5 Games that they will host in December. They (Botswana) have also invited us for a tournament to be held in July. “On our part, we are also using the event to prepare for the Youth Olympic Qualifiers,” said Masiyambumbi. Some of Zimbabwe’s boxers in the Youth Olympics Qualifiers bound squad expected to trade leather at Sizinda are Prosperous Basket, Bukhosi Mabunda, Adneta Mabeza, Mighty Kudzotsa, Wayne Muchabaiwa, Knowledge Maniku, Ndabezinhle Phiri and Beaven Sibanda. Boxers for the Youth Olympics Qualifiers are aged between 17 and 18 years. Masiyambumbi appealed for support from the corporate world. Botswana’s boxers coming for the tournament are 18-year-old quartet of Kgosi Masimakoko, Brian Galelemongwe, Raymond Madumetsi and Tshephang Kapinga. Festus One Madiehe, Thisanang Tlhotheletsa, Atlegang Ditau, Marion Lucas, Oteng Letloa and Jane Onkgopotse, all born in 2001 completes the team of Botswana’s athletes set to fight against Zimbabweans today.  — @ZililoR