 Innocent Ruwende, Harare Bureau The Southern African Power Pool (SAPP) is fast-tracking implementation of the MoZiSA (Mozambique, Zimbabwe, and South Africa) Regional Interconnector Project in order to capitalise on South Africa’s excess energy. The MoZiSa transmission project, which is being run under the auspices of the SAPP has the capacity to improve access to power through the regional grid, allowing the smooth transfer of electricity between and among Sadc member states. The project comprises the development, construction and operation of a 400kV or 500kV high-voltage transmission infrastructure over a distance of approximately 935km, including transmission lines and associated substations through South Africa, Zimbabwe and Mozambique with the view to facilitate the strengthening of the existing “North South transmission interconnection corridor’’ in Southern Africa. The programme is part of the cooperation between Sadc and European Union. SAPP co-ordination centre manager, Eng Stephen Dihwa said the programme was under discussion with a view to split the project into two components starting with ZiSa (Zimbabwe-South Africa)and then Mozi (Mozambique-Zimbabwe). “There is a need to speed up the implementation of the Zisa part of the project because of the excess energy in South Africa. That part will be done first followed by Mozi. The sponsoring parties are in discussions to finalise the components of the project,” he said. The 550 km interconnector transmitter under the MoZisa project to link Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe is expected to marginally improve connectivity and electricity trading in southern Africa. The major power utilities in the three countries — Electricicade de Moçambique (EDM), Eskom of South Africa and Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (Zesa) are supporting the project. Speaking on the benefits of the project to Zimbabwe after the shortlisting of two technically-compliant bids for the 400KV Orange Grove-Tokwe Transmission project by the State Procurement Board last year, Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company managing                          director Engineer Julian Chinembiri explained that MoZisa will go a long way in stabilising electricity connectivity in the region. “At the moment, Mutare is being fed by one transmission line from Dema sub-station to Orange Grove. If we lose that one line, it means Mutare and the greater part of Manicaland will not have power. But the coming on board of that Orange Grove-Triangle feeder, will close the gap in the system,” explained Eng Chinembiri.