McClive Phiri Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS right-back McClive Phiri’s consistency in the opening stages of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season have been rewarded with a national team call-up. The former Tsholotsho utility player is part of 21 players called up by national coach Sunday Chidzambwa for tomorrow’s Independence Day celebratory match against Botswana at the National Sports Stadium. According to a statement from Zifa, the locally-based Warriors will play against Botswana in the President’s Cup at the National Sports Stadium as part of the 2018 Independence Day national celebrations. Phiri, who joined Highlanders from Ngezi Platinum Stars at the beginning of the year, has proved a good buy for Bosso, with great defensive shows and overlapping runs that give the Bulawayo giants numbers when attacking. He is one of three Highlanders’ players called up for the game alongside central defender Peter Muduhwa and left-back Honest Moyo. Defending champions FC Platinum have last year’s Soccer Star of the Year runner-up, defender Kevin Moyo, leading defensive midfielder Winston Mhango and left-footed midfielder Edwin Farai Madanhanga in the Warriors’ side. Ngezi Platinum Stars have the highest number of players with five, who include goalkeeper Donovan Bernard, the midfield pair of Liberty Chakoroma and Michael Charamba as well as strikers Terrence Dzukamanja and Clive Augusto. Despite struggling in the Premiership, Dynamos contributed two players, veteran Ocean Mushure and Raphael Manuvire, to the 21-man squad that starts training in Harare this morning. Zifa spokesperson Xolisani Gwesela said tomorrow’s match will afford Chidzambwa an opportunity to assess local players, as they begin preparations for the Cosafa tournament set for next month in South Africa. “Since everyone has been active at their respective clubs, the team will have a single training session tomorrow. The significance of this game is that football celebrates ethos of independence, nation building, fair play and harmony. This time we’ve decided to use the national team to celebrate those ethos and hard won independence. “Also note that the game affords locally based players an opportunity to impress the coach, who is planning for next month’s Cosafa tournament and the Afcon qualifiers set for a later date,” said Gwesela. Meanwhile, Highlanders and Bulawayo City are scheduled to battle it out in a celebratory match at White City Stadium on Independence Day. Warriors Squad Goalkeepers: Takabva Mawaya (ZPC Kariba), Bernard Donovan (Ngezi Platinum Stars). Defenders: Peter Muduhwa, McClive Phiri, Honest Moyo (all Highlanders), Steven Makatuka (Caps United), Kevin Moyo (FC Platinum), Byron Madzokere (Yadah Stars), Devine Lunga (Chicken Inn) Midfielders: Winston Mhango, Edwin Farai Madhananga (FC Platinum), Liberty Chakoroma, Michael Charamba (both Ngezi Platinum Stars), Innocent Mucheneka (Chicken Inn), Ian Nyoni (Chapungu), Ocean Mushure, Raphael Manuvire (both Dynamos), Leeroy Mavhunga (Yadah Stars) Strikers: Clive Augusto, Terence Dzukamanja (both Ngezi Platinum Stars), Ishmael Wadi (Bulawayo City). @ZililoR