Minister Sithembiso Nyoni Grace Nyoni, Midlands Reporter THE Minister of Women and Youth Affairs, Sithembiso Nyoni, has called on women entrepreneurs to increase their participation in economic development saying viable business ventures by females would steer robust economic growth. Addressing the Midlands Women in Business Coalition (WBC) in Gweru last weekend, Minister Nyoni said empowered women play a crucial role in transforming societies. “As women in business the onus is on us to be co-drivers and benefactors of Zimbabwe’s economic development process. It is important that we are recognised not as workers in the field but as producers in the agricultural, mining and manufacturing sectors,” said the minister. “For women, the only way towards attaining economic empowerment is the transition from owning small income generating business to being fully fledged business women who own trust companies and manufacturing factories with the goal of supporting each other as women to grow the country’s economy.” Minister Nyoni applauded Midlands women for being united and innovative. “I was pleased when I heard that you had organised such motivational awards. In the new dispensation under President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who has declared that Zimbabwe is Open for Business, we should take it upon ourselves to open the gates for investors, starting with ourselves,” she said. “As women we should get out of the shackles of feminine poverty by assisting each other. I came here really motivated. As women we must do away with the pull her down syndrome. “Today I stand in solidarity with you and hope other women in Zimbabwe can copy what you have initiated.” President of WBC Ms Moreblessing Kunyangwe, who is also the Zimbabwe General Medical Aid Fund (ZGMAF) principal, concurred with Minister Nyoni saying women should take advantage of the new economic policies meant to turnaround the fortunes of the country. “As Women in Business Coalition we have responded to President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s call for every Zimbabwean to come together and contribute to the country’s economic turnaround. We want to show that Zimbabwe is indeed open for business,” she said. “As women we need to be successful entrepreneurs, taking up positions of leadership and being part of those championing economic development. It is now time to build the nation by creating strong bonds that will ensure the revival and growth of the nation.”