Lenox Lizwi Mhlanga THE Zimbabwe International Trade Fair 2018 is on its last day today. It has seen a burst of life infused into a usually calm Bulawayo. The showcase was opened officially yesterday by His Excellency, President Emmerson D Mnangagwa with the usual pomp and ceremony associated with such events. Bulawayo rises to the occasion in hosting an event of such magnitude and national importance. The local economy also cashes in. However, what is clear is that as Zimbabwe opens for outside business, our facilities could be found wanting, and the services somewhat stretched. There are lessons to be learnt because as far as we know, the ZITF will continue hosting the nation’s premier business expo for the foreseeable future. It’s important to listen to the concerns expressed by our visitors so that we do not repeat the same mistakes. The first area of concern is that of capacity. This could be a national issue because of the depressed era we are coming from. A lot of the infrastructure is outdated and stretched to the limit. Accommodation remains a serious challenge, more-so this year when an inordinate number of visitors descended from all corners of the country and abroad. News about the imminent construction of a hotel by the ZITF company might be a partial solution. There is a need for more facilities that provide the necessary volumes that the exhibition generates. Several exhibitors and delegates found themselves squatting in less fashionable lodges dotted around the city. Unfortunately, their experiences would not make good word-of-mouth marketing for future events. It’s the stuff for horror movies. Which takes us to another related aspect, that of a customer service culture beyond reproach. The level of service excellence in Zimbabwe, in general, is in the dumps. Years of chopping corners and living from hand-to-mouth have dealt the service sector a huge blow. However, we should not pay lip service to the mantra that Zimbabwe’s open for business. Local business should be scared, because outside competitors won’t be taking any prisoners. The protection that the government has given to business should have been a time to re-tool, train and orientate their personnel. This is no longer business as usual. Resting on one’s laurels at a time when the reality of the new dispensation dawns on us would be suicidal. A professional approach is demanded of business in every sector. It’s a matter of survival that one’s business conforms to global standards and benchmarks. Organisations such as the Standards Association of Zimbabwe and the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority should come to the fore in ensuring that standards are met. I dare say they should be ruthless with those organisations that fail to meet the grade because not doing so would be costly to Brand Zimbabwe. Another area that needs attention is that of strategy. Planning has always been an important aspect that requires attention. Businesses that service the ZITF know that there is always a flood of last minute requests for a variety of services from printing, stand design, construction and decoration. Yet, year in (for lack of and year out), providers in these sectors are found wanting. Clients would prefer that items are ordered and supplied on site to cut costs. The crunch this year was worsened by the fact that several organisations decided at the last minute to exhibit. This was in spite the fact that the ZITF Company holds workshops well before the exhibition to give clients the necessary training and preparation. For one’s participation at an exhibition to get a fair return on investment, it should be part of a marketing strategy and not a once off thing. Those organisations that don’t take advantage of the services that the ZITF team offers show by their lack of preparedness and frustration. Failing to plan is planning to fail. You will see these laggards (for lack of a better term) crowding ZITF’s offices on exhibition day, complaining about bad service and making an outright nuisance of themselves. Are you at the ZITF to show your face, or creating a jaunt for the favoured few in the company? Has your boss suddenly realised the competition is exhibiting and demands that you pull a rabbit from a hat to participate at zero hour? If you are not aware of how your participation fits into the broader strategy, then don’t exhibit. The experience will be full of costly regrets. The last area of concern is the elephant in the room, that of pricing. ZITF elicits some of the most extortionate prices in the country. It’s bad enough that during normal periods, service providers, producers and retailers charge an arm and a leg. During the exhibition, they take both an arm and a leg in terms of prices. I have argued that businesses in Bulawayo are shooting themselves in the foot. Purchasing power parity has flown out the window and the tourism industry are villains in this. Be reasonable in pricing your product and benefit from volumes. Industrialist, Busisa Moyo, argues that because supply is short, prices are high. “Already, relatives are hiring cars directly from us to side step the high charges. Always look to supply and demand when it comes to prices. There’s no witchcraft involved. “Just understand why demand is high and supply is short. Addressing this is called business,” he said on Twitter. He went on to liken it to the price of tomatoes during certain times of the year or imbambayila in that when they can’t be found, the price went up. Agreed, but it’s killing business and the goose that lays the golden egg, since exhibitors will prefer to take business back to Harare and try to minimise expenditure in Bulawayo. Our loss would be Harare’s gain. On a price parity principle, they will find it cheaper to get the most of their services done in Harare, and still have some left-over change! I hope that local businesses will take these words of wisdom seriously. Next year will not be the same. The economy will be on overdrive and those who fail to conform will be left eating dust.