Mrs Fiona Moyo, one of the beneficiaries, rejoices after receiving her cattle at ZITF yesterday Lovemore Zigara, Midlands Correspondent LOCAL foundries have re-launched the Zimbabwe Institute of Foundrymen (ZIF) whose mandate is to help lobby Government about issues affecting the sector. The new ZIF executive is made up of Mr John Mhlanga as the president, deputised by Mr Itai Zaba while Prince Gobvu from Bulawayo is the secretary general. Other members of the committee are Tapiwa Muchenje (vice secretary), Varaidzo Kudenga (treasurer) while Rodwell Makoni, Adam Masamvu and Kuda Matare who come in as committee members. Mr Zaba said they were keen to be the voice of the foundry industry towards meeting the common challenges facing its member companies in cooperation with Government and learning institutions. “We have been having challenges with lobbying Government so that they look at our needs as a sector. For instance, there is a ban on scrap metal in the country but there is laxity in terms of enforcement and these are some of the issues we want addressed,” he said. “There is also need for skills development through mentoring and this we intend to do through collaboration with higher and tertiary institutions,” added Mr Zaba. The foundry industry has been facing a plethora of challenges over the years, which has resulted in the closure of some firms. Of the 60 foundries, which were there in 2008, about 22 have closed because of lack of support. Mr Zaba said there is need for Government to prioritise foreign currency allocations to foundries. “There is need for Government to prioritise foreign exchange allocations to foundries for the procurement of raw materials since some of them are exporters. Foundries help in import substitution hence they need to be supported,” he said. The ZIF boss called for the resuscitation of Ziscosteel adding that the overreliance of scrap metal is not sustainable. He said: “Since the closure of Ziscosteel we have been struggling to get cast iron and the reliance of scrap metal is unsustainable as the resource may get exhausted. “What we are suggesting to Government is to open Ziscosteel in phases by starting with the foundry section and set up a small furnace and eventually it will come back to life.” — @lavuzigara1