Mr Gift Banda Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter THE trial date for Bulawayo Deputy Mayor, Gift Banda, and 11 MDC-T followers who were involved in violent skirmishes that rocked the party’s provincial party offices in the city, has been set for May 8. More than 15 people were injured when the violence that lasted for over two hours broke out as party supporters clashed along factional lines. Banda (49) of Burnside suburb, Mlandu Ncube (30) of Northlea Court in the city’s Central Business District, Felix Mhaka (39) of Khumalo, Kunashe Muchemwa (36) of Sizinda, Raymond Dudzayi Gombedza (47) of Makokoba, Robson Tera (41) of Entumbane, Donaldson Mabuto (35) of Mpopoma, Michael Mubasa (55) of Sizinda, Madzana Takunda (31) of New Magwegwe, Sibongubuhle Sibanda (42) of Pumula North, Erick Gono (33) of Magwegwe West and Edith Moyo (35) of Old Lobengula, appeared yesterday before Bulawayo magistrate Mr Franklin Mkhwananzi facing charges of public violence as defined in section 36(1)(a) of the Criminal Law (Codification and Reform) Act. They were remanded out of custody to May 8 for the commencement of trial. Banda, who is also the MDC-T Bulawayo provincial chairperson, was released on $200 bail while the rest of the accused persons were each granted $50 bail. As part of their bail conditions, the accused persons were ordered to report once a month at the Bulawayo CID Law and Order Section and not interfere with State witnesses. They were also ordered not to engage in any form of political violence pending the finalisation of the matter. Prosecuting, Mr Nkathazo Dlodlo said on March 4 this year, there was a meeting at the MDC-T Bulawayo provincial offices between 2nd and 3rd Avenue along Fort Street. During the course of the meeting, the accused persons, acting in cahoots, went to the venue of the meeting whereupon arrival they tried to force their way into the meeting, the court heard. They were allegedly denied entry by a team which was manning the entrance. “The accused persons started throwing stones at the people who were inside the meeting venue. They injured some people and damaged windscreens of four cars, a Range Rover Discovery, Honda Fit, Toyota Fortuner and a Nissan X-trail,” said Mr Dlodlo. The total value of the damaged property is $5 200. A report was made to the police leading to the arrest of the accused persons. Mr Prince Butshe Dube of Mathonsi Ncube Law Chambers represented the accused persons. The MDC-T has been divided along factional lines, pitting party deputy president Dr Thokozani Khupe and president Advocate Nelson Chamisa. — @mashnets