Minister Monica Mutsvangwa Nozwelo Hadebe, Chronicle Reporter THE Zimbabwe Teachers’ Association (Zimta) 37th annual conference kicked off in Victoria Falls yesterday amid calls for the establishment of a collective bargaining council for the civil service. Minister of State for Provincial Affairs in Manicaland Monica Mutsvangwa, who was the guest speaker, said the Public Service Act does not provide for collective bargaining which is critical to motivate workers. “All workers have a right to collective bargaining. There is an attempt to align the Act to the constitution as a way of showing Government’s readiness to establish a bargaining council,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. She said there is a need to motivate workers to increase productivity and improve efficiency. Minister Mutsvangwa said the theme of the conference: “Freedom of Association and the Right to Collective Bargaining an Imperative to the Education System in Zimbabwe” dovetails with the country’s goal to meet International Labour Organisation Principles. She said it was important to resolve outstanding challenges facing workers especially teachers such as the issue of leave, concerns about the new curriculum, remuneration and allowances. Minister Mutsvangwa said Zimbabwe was among countries that ratified the freedom of association and protection of the right to organise conventions in the world. She said workers’ freedoms are fundamental to human rights at work as they form an integral part of democracy. Zimta president Mr Richard Gundane said freedom of association would capacitate teachers to work together for betterment of their conditions of service. “The right to collective bargaining is a legal right in this country hence this theme which highlights the fundamental rights and principles enshrined in the Zimta constitution. “Indeed freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are what propel the morale of the workforce. We need happiness at our workplace,” said Mr Gundane. The three-day conference which kicked off yesterday is also being attended by members of teachers’ unions in Sadc and East Africa. @nonoe_hadebe