Ashley Morgen Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter ORGANISERS of the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe pageant have set dates for the regional finals that will run between May 19 and June 23. Sarah Mpofu-Sibanda’s Fingers Modelling Agency won the licence to run this year’s Miss Tourism Zimbabwe (MTZ) pageant ushering in the return of the beauty contest and regional finals that had since been scrapped off. Matabeleland North licence holder, Shauntel Nkomo said she would cover all Matabeleland provinces and has set May 19 as the date for the finals in Victoria Falls. “For Matabeleland North, the final will be held on 19 May at a venue to be advised followed by Bindura on 26 May,” Nkomo said. Mutare, Chinhoyi and Marondera will hold finals on June 2, June 8 and June 16 respectively while 23 June is the date for the Harare final. Other provinces are yet to set their dates. Auditions for those vying for the crown from Matabeleland North will be conducted in Victoria Falls on April 14. The top three models who will be shortlisted at the regional finals will go on to represent their provinces at the national finals to be held later in the year. “The regional finals will be for selection of models who’ll represent their respective areas at the national finals taking place in Harare. People think that modelling is all about being naked and pretty yet we teach them etiquette, how to socialise at events, as well as ways of enriching communities where they hail from through various activities,” said Nkomo. She said they were appealing for assistance from the corporate world to hold a successful event and also encouraged local fashion designers to grab the opportunity in order to showcase their talent. “We are trying to fund this event using our own resources and we’re grateful to the few people who have come forward with resources. We are, however, still calling upon the business community to help us in cash or kind.” MTZ recently identified eight regional licence holders namely Mercy Mushaninga of Zim Gossip who will cover Harare and Mashonaland provinces and former Miss Zimbabwe, Caroline Marufu-Buwu, who will hold the Manicaland edition. For the Midlands, Image Modelling Agency boss Mavis Koslek is the licence holder, while Memory and Innocent Munaye will cater for Masvingo. The reigning MTZ queen is Ashley Morgen, a graduate of Fingers Modelling Agency. @ncubeleon