Mr Jorrick Plambeck at the ZITF yesterday Auxilia Katongomara, Business Reporter GERMAN exhibitors at the ongoing 57th edition of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) have said they are impressed with the ongoing economic reforms in Zimbabwe and believe the overwhelming participation at this year’s trade showcase is indicative of positive international sentiment. Officials at German stands said their companies were closely following events in Zimbabwe with a view to investing again after years of absence during frosty relations with the West since the turn of the millennium. Mr Jorrick Plambeck, the vice president of the Zimbabwe- Germany Society who is also representative of Fairpros International Trade Fair Marketing, said the new dispensation has inspired hope for Zimbabwe. “I am expecting better business than previous years due to the new political signal, which we have received. Decisions and direction, which have been taken, are in the right way,” he said. “The signals that are here are good, I am very happy. It has proven that there have been changes, which you can prove that they have been done and of course they are very well accepted by the international business community. “I heard on my way my Ambassador talking on the radio and for donkey years we’ve always invited our members here and due to the sanctions they were not able to come. Before the sanctions they were always here during the trade fair, they had a good reception and now they are coming back.” Mr Plambeck pledged to carry the positive message from Zimbabwe across saying this year’s exhibition was bigger and better. “Since 1982 I have regularly exhibited here every year and I’ve seen the good times and what makes me very happy is that there is a big flow into this fair, there is a big interest from outside,” he said. Mr Plambeck said a number of their members had left the Germany-Zimbabwe Society but some were now keen to re-engage. “In Germany, I’m the vice president of the Germany-Zimbabwe Society Association where people used to say what shall we do with Zimbabwe. A lot of people left the association but I know they will come back. “They say now we need your help, now we need to stick together and that’s what many have done and others are coming back. It is hard and some people have said what are you doing in Zimbabwe? Is it safe? Some from other countries were asking me where I am going and I say I am going to Zimbabwe. I say where shall I go then, they say come to us,” he said. German Ambassador to Zimbabwe Dr Thomas Hutter, who is also attending the trade fair for the first time since his deployment to the country last year, said German companies were cautiously optimistic of the reforms being introduced by Government. “We have had a Germany business delegation that was here at the end of February. To my knowledge it was the first delegation that was organised by one country, in that case the Germany Africa Business Association. I then talked to Germany companies that are based in Johannesburg in March, so there is a lot of interest by German companies about what is going on in Zimbabwe. “My opinion is that they, at the moment, are looking at the developments, they are looking at what is happening. Is it changing? Can they come in?” said Dr Hutter. He said there were very few German investors left in Zimbabwe after some of them left the country in the early 2000s.—@AuxiliaK