Professor Lovemore Madhuku Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent MDC-T breakaway deputy president, Dr Thokozani Khupe’s lawyer Professor Lovemore Madhuku yesterday said he was preparing his legal case challenging his client’s expulsion from Parliament. Speaker of Parliament, Advocate Jacob Mudenda, on Thursday announced in the National Assembly that MDC-T had recalled Dr Khupe from Parliament. In an interview yesterday, Prof Madhuku confirmed that he was working on his legal arguments before filing the papers. “We haven’t filed the papers yet. I got the instruction late yesterday. We are now working on the arguments. But it’s certain there is going to be a legal challenge. We don’t just wake up and go to court, there is a lot that needs to be covered,” said Prof Madhuku. He said they had not decided whether to approach the High Court or Constitutional Court. “It might be over the weekend. If we decide to file at the High Court it will be over the weekend but should we decide on going to Constitutional Court it will definitely be after the weekend. But there will be no filing of papers today (yesterday),” he said. MDC-T has been experiencing power struggles since the death of its founding president Mr Morgan Tsvangirai in February. The power struggles have degenerated to violence and subsequent split along Dr Khupe and Advocate Nelson Chamisa’s factions. MDC-T’s disintegration has seen the Adv Chamisa-led faction expelling Dr Khupe from the party and recalling her from parliament, arguing that she no longer served the interests of the party. Dr Khupe’s is, however, contesting her expulsion from the Parliament and has hired constitutional lawyer Prof Madhuku to represent her in courts of law. Dr Khupe and Adv Chamisa’s factions have brought each other before the courts several times as squabbles in the MDC-T are escalating. At the moment there are two MDC-T dispute cases before the courts with the latest case being the wrangle on the ownership of party’s name, which is being heard before the Bulawayo High Court. The other case concerns the arrests of members from both factions over violence that occurred at the party’s provincial offices in Bulawayo last month. The fights in the MDC-T have resulted in Dr Khupe’s camp taking matters to social media micro-blogging site Twitter where they are attacking their political opponents. Dr Khupe posting on Twitter yesterday said she will remain resolute against her adversaries. “I still stand by our founding values and principles. I am not and will not be moved by any actions taken against me. I remain resolute and will not be deterred or discouraged. Our congress will continue as planned. The struggle continues,” twitted Dr Khupe. Mr Gutu used the same platform to declare war against his political opponents. “This is not the end, but just the beginning of the real war! Trust me! We will fight to the bitterest end! We will fight to the last man/woman standing!” twitted Mr Gutu. — @nqotshili