VP Kembo Mohadi Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Reporter VICE-President Kembo Mohadi has implored churches to play a leading role in promoting the gospel of peace and tolerance ahead of the forthcoming harmonised elections. In a speech read on his behalf by the Minister of State for Matabeleland South Provincial Affairs, Cde Abedinico Ncube, during the ground breaking ceremony for the proposed Gospel of God Church-run Hannavale Environment School in Figtree yesterday, VP Mohadi said churches play a critical role in the socio-economic development and political stability of the country. “The prevailing peace in the country can never be complete during the peaceful transition to date without mentioning the role played by the church. “The current dispensation encourages a peaceful co-existence regardless of divergent views in the political arena, particularly as we head towards the elections,” he said. VP Mohadi commended indigenous churches for supporting the Government during and after independence. “I also would like to reiterate that as Government we are fully behind local indigenous churches because they continue to support us spiritually and materially throughout all the challenges that the country has been subjected to. “Today we say Zimbabwe is open for business and all who wish us well can join us in building our nation towards prosperity,” he said. The Vice-President singled out the Gospel of God Church, saying it has stood with the Government during and after the country’s liberation struggle. Gospel of God Church commands a huge following amongst the Apostolic Sect religious organisations in the country and it has a vast number of followers throughout the entire Sadc region and beyond. VP Mohadi hailed the church for coming up with the idea to establish the environmental school, saying it will assist in promoting environmental awareness issues. “The environment school will certainly promote environmental awareness through churning out graduates who will superintend and safe guard the environment. The enrolment of students at this institution will also bring development to Matabeleland South and the entire region,” said VP Mohadi.  — @mashnets