Irvine Nduwa Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter NATIONAL rugby team and Matabeleland Warriors prop Irvine Nduwa is expected to leave the country today for a three-month attachment at an unnamed German club. Warriors’ coach and former Sables player Reuben Kumpasa confirmed that the 25-year-old forward is leaving for Europe today and is hopeful Nduwa will clinch a permanent deal in Germany. “We will start our season without a key member of our squad Irvine Nduwa, who is already in Harare preparing for his trip to Germany where he will be attached for three months. He was in Germany last year and they have asked him to return for another three months and the hope is that he will get a long contract,” said Kumpasa. “He is a good player, with a big heart, who is technically and tactically gifted. I don’t think the Germans would have called him again if he wasn’t that good. Nduwa’s attachment in Germany will not only help his game develop, but it will also be good for the national team, as he will bring along a wealth of experience from Europe.” In the absence of Nduwa, Warriors will look to Walter Gode, Emanuel Mazikana and Mkhululi Ndlela, among other players, to lead their campaign in the MidMat Rugby League, which kicks off tomorrow. Eight teams, Gweru Sports Club, Zambezi Diggers of Hwange, Warriors, Old Miltonians, Police Titans, Highlanders, Prisons and Bulldogs, all Bulawayo sides, will compete in the MidMat League, which will run for 13 weeks. The top two teams from the MidMat League will battle it out with the Northern Region’s top two sides later this year, with the winner set to compete in the Gold Cup. “Because of financial constraints faced by the national association, it was decided that instead of having a National League, we will have two leagues, the Northern and Southern Leagues. The Northern Region is made up of teams from Harare, Mutare and the rest of the Mashonaland provinces. The Southern Region will be known as the MidMat League, with sides from Bulawayo, the Midlands, Masvingo, Matabeleland North and South provinces. The top two teams from the Northern and Southern regions will then compete for the sole ticket to compete in the Gold Cup at the end of the season,” said Simba Dangah, the MidMat League spokesperson. Fixtures Tomorrow: Warriors v Prisons, Highlanders v Zambezi Diggers, Old Miltonians v Titans, Bulldogs v Gweru (all games at Hartsfield). — @ZililoR.