 Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter EMERGENCY services in Bulawayo were stretched following three road traffic accidents that occurred inside 30 minutes, resulting in the death of a pedestrian while 12 people were injured. Emergency rescue services attended to seven accidents in the city on Saturday night but four of the mishaps were minor. The first accident occurred at 10:01PM along Masiyephambili Drive and Goldrich Road on Saturday. At 10:11PM, the second accident occurred near Mzilikazi Barracks along the Bulawayo- Harare Road while the third was at 10:31PM along Hillside Road in Burnside suburb. The pedestrian was hit following a head-on collision as he watched his friend doing “doughnut driving,” performing 360 degree turns in his vehicle on the road, just after he had dropped him off. Bulawayo Chief Fire Officer Mr Richard Peterson confirmed the accidents. “In one of the accidents in Hillside suburb, the driver, after dropping off a friend, performed doughnut driving. During the event, a Toyota Hilux rammed into his vehicle and the vehicles hit the onlooker (friend who had just disembarked). He died on the spot,” he said. The chief fire officer warned motorist against spinning their vehicles in the middle of roads, saying it results in unnecessary accidents. He said all the injured people were rushed to the United Bulawayo Hospital where they are receiving treatment. Mr Peterson said it was disturbing to receive three road traffic accidents in 30 minutes urging motorists to observe road rules and exercise utmost caution at all times to avoid accidents. Mr Peterson said the fire brigade faced challenges in attending to all three accidents as they happened almost at once. “Due to shortage of ambulance technicians, we faced challenges in attending all three and had to request for assistance from our private partners, Emras and Mars. This resulted in delays in attending to scenes. We are however, thankful for the co-operation of our private partners as all accidents were attended to,” he said. Mr Peterson said in the head-on collision that occurred along the Bulawayo-Harare Road, one person was injured and fire-fighters had to cut through the vehicle to extricate him. “He was seriously injured along with three other people who were on board with him. Along Hillside Road, seven people were injured while one was injured along Masiyephambili Road. Rescue services were sought in about seven accidents that occurred around Bulawayo on Saturday but four turned out to be minor,” said Mr Peterson. @winnie_masara