President Emmerson Mnangagwa Walter Mswazie in Masvingo PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa will in the next few weeks visit the Cold Storage Company (CSC) unit in Masvingo and also tour the defunct Mashaba Mine in Mashava, a senior ruling party official has said. The two companies used to be the province’s life blood and hopes are high they will be resuscitated under the new political dispensation, which has put its focus on economic revival. Zanu-PF provincial chairman, Cde Ezra Chadzamira, said President Mnangagwa would visit the two companies to appreciate the state of affairs and seek a way forward on resuscitating the firms. “We expect to host His Excellency, Cde ED Mnangagwa, after two weeks from now. He will visit Matabeleland South before coming to Masvingo,” said Cde Chadzamira. CSC Masvingo plant requires recapitalisation to fulfil its strategic economic mandate and the National Social Security Authority Security has pledged to avail $20 million to the firm. Mashaba Mine management has since secured $14 million of the needed $20 million to restart operations, which will see more than 3 000 workers returning to work. Cde Chadzamira said this was going to be the first official visit by the President to the province since his ascendancy to Presidency last November and urged members of the public to give him a befitting welcome. He said Masvingo was excited about the imminent resuscitation of major companies as this would create employment for the youth. Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Senator Josiah Hungwe, is also pushing for the re-opening of the Sponge Iron and Mining Beneficiation Industries (SIMBI) Pvt Ltd, popularly known, as Steel Makers. “The provincial leadership toured SIMBI last month after its management announced that they are ready to resume operations soon. The company has a challenge of power, as the power utility had cut of suppliers to the plant,” said Cde Chadzamira. He said President Mnangagwa was also expected to tour SIMBI amid reports that about 300 former employees have been contacted to return back to work.  — @walterbmswazie3