Justice Simango NEIGHBOURHOODS have changed over the years. In the past, people brought baskets of sandwiches or fruit to the new people on the block. Sometimes they would offer to help with a project. A welcome lady would stop by for coffee and leave a list of important numbers. Neighbours shared tools and garden equipment so everyone didn’t have to go out and buy expensive items that they wouldn’t use often. Even today, all neighbourhoods have their own personalities. I come from a neighbourhood which is less open to street parties and socialising, people prefer to keep to themselves. My hood isn’t bad; it’s just not as warm and inviting. Many of them have demanding jobs and other responsibilities, so they don’t have time to socialise with the neighbours. Regardless of the type of neighbourhood you live in, neighbourhoods just have their own personalities but there are still some basic etiquette rules you should follow to be a good neighbour. The ultimate goal is to live in peace and harmony, and even though that’s not always possible, you can at least do whatever it takes to prevent hostilities and long-lasting hard feelings. A lot depends on where you live, but noise pollution for me has caused a split among neighbours. The habits of your neighbours are often derived from their personalities. Noise acceptability on a street filled with young families is different from an apartment building occupied by single 20-somethings. Good neighbours observe the 9PM to 9AM time trend rule. During this period, a good neighbour with a good personality will avoid unnecessary noise from any source, be it the revving of car engines, buzzing of car horns, holding long, loud conversations, baby cries and whatever that makes an annoying sound that wakes someone from his/her sleep. The “Chew the fat” dogma has paralysed modern neighbourhoods at the expense of good relationships. No matter how big or small your lot is; neighbourhood gossip is a bad habit! If you have an issue with a neighbour, go directly to that person and discuss over it in a polite manner. I have seen some of my neighbours engaging resident associations to resolve a dispute. Well that’s clever, it’s a smart way to protect relations and avoid violent tensions. The best is to keep your opinions to yourself and not share with the lady across the street. You might be a party animal, and that’s just fine as long as you don’t intrude or impose on your neighbours. An occasional late-night blast might be forgiven, but all-night parties every single weekend can make you the bad neighbour. Be respectful to your neighbours when you throw a party, let them know about the inconvenience, I am sure they will let you get away with it. Personal space in most neighbourhoods in the country has caused conflicts and unrest among neighbours. Quite often when we host a function at our homes, we tend to invite quite a number of guests to attend that function. But the violations that guests with vehicles are guilty of, is parking their cars and blocking someone else’s drive way. Notify your guests about your boundaries. One of the things that can turn an otherwise good neighbour into a nuisance is when their pets aren’t tended. Your neighbour’s dog may leave droppings in your yard, or their cat may get out and dig in your garden. Remember that the animals are doing what comes natural. It’s the owners who need to be responsible. When people make an effort to be a good neighbour by following proper etiquette, everyone will have a sense of well-being, knowing you are all surrounded by friends. The neighbourhood will be more appealing, and you’ll be more content in your home. An extra benefit is knowing that you and your neighbours have each other’s backs. The top cities in the world today are made up    of good neighbours. Even in business, where vendors share vending space and office buildings, neighbourhood etiquette goes a long way if observed correctly. Each of the scenarios listed above can work if done with the right intent and spirit. However, there are some people who refuse to be reasonable because of their personality. If you make an attempt to work with difficult neighbours, and they become belligerent, don’t put yourself in a dangerous position. You have several choices. You can learn to live with the bad behaviour, call the authorities, or move. Just remember that moving doesn’t guarantee you won’t have a bad neighbour because the new community might have someone who is much worse than what you’re dealing with now. -Justice Simango is a Business Etiquette and Grooming Consultant who writes in his own capacity. He is a member of Toastmasters International. Feedback: justicesimango4@gmail.com