HCCL Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Business Reporter HWANGE Colliery Company Limited (HCCL)’s production shot up by more than 100 percent in the first quarter of 2018 to 232 000 tonnes per month from a lowest average of about 100 000 in the first quarter of 2017. Addressing journalists at the on-going Zimbabwe International Trade Fair in Bulawayo yesterday, HCCL managing director Engineer Thomas Makore (pictured below) said the coal mining giant’s recapitalisation and turnaround efforts received a major boost following the procurement of underground equipment. “Turning to production, the company closed the first quarter of this year at about 232 000 tonnes, which is more than 100 percent improvement compared to the same period last year,” he said. “In the second quarter of 2018, we are pleased to announce that Hwange Colliery Company Limited’s efforts to recapitalise and turn around its fortunes will receive a major boost with the arrival of supporting equipment for our underground mine, which includes the additional shuttle cars, a transformer and a roof bolter among other critical components.” The Zimbabwe Stock Exchange-listed coal miner’s three main underground mines are expected to operate at optimum level from an average of the current 10 000 tonnes to 50 000 tonnes per month. Eng Makore said HCCL was working closely with a selected European company, which will be conducting exploration and drilling at its new concession in western areas. He said the company’s strategic thrust was to further increase production with emphasis of contribution from its high value and margin products such as coking coal and coke. HCCL has been in existence for over 115 years. Eng Makore said HCCL’s presence at the ZITF was very strategic in line with its theme “Sustainable industrial development, inclusive, competitive, collaborative”. “As an organisation we take pride in incorporating people from diverse cultures and no discrimination is exercised on race, gender, colour or ethnic background. The company also participates in corporate social responsibility activities in which we interface with the community and ensure the community benefits from the local resource,” he said. Eng Makore said the coal mining company has improved its whole value chain and reduced turnaround time on loading and delivery. “As HCCL we endeavour to ensure that all power stations are adequately stocked with coal so that the nation is guaranteed of enough power. HCCL ensures that coal is available so that each tobacco leaf produced in Zimbabwe is cured by coal thereby curbing the alarming rate of deforestation,” he said. HCCL has resuscitated the Hwange Coal Miners and Processors’ Forum together with other companies operating in Hwange district in a bid to share notes on proactive pollution prevention strategies and formulate plans on pollution mitigation. — @mashnets.