Justice Simango THE news frequently reports on the bad behaviour of our celebrities and pays less attention to their positives. When someone famous actually has good manners, we’re often surprised. That shouldn’t be the case, having money and fame doesn’t exempt anyone from showing kindness and respect towards others. Many parents worry about the famous people their children try to emulate. If this is you, spend some time selecting famous people who act properly in public and give something back to the fans who put them on a pedestal. These are good role models you want your children to see. 1. Ruvheneko Parirenyatwa Ruvheneko Parirenyatwa Yes, she’s the royal radio and talk show host, brand ambassador and philanthropist, but she still shows respect to those around her. Another thing to love about this beautiful director of ceremonies is her desire to make this world a better place by advancing the opportunities for youths in Zimbabwe. The careful choice of diction on radio, her polite gestures on television and her decent taste for dressing has made Ruvheneko an outstanding role model to most young ladies in the country. 2. Brendan Taylor Brendan Taylor This cricket star allows himself to rule his behaviour. I’ve never seen Taylor’s name connected with a drunken or drug-related scandal, and I doubt we ever will. He has maintained his composure in spite of some of the ridiculous comments of others. Whether he’s getting applause or boos from the crowd, he maintains his dignity and the morale of the gentlemen’s game, after all he is the first Zimbabwean batsman to hit back-to-back One-Day International centuries (128 not out and 107 not out) respectively. A perfect example of great sportsmanship and one you wouldn’t mind your child emulating. 3. Oliver Mtukudzi Oliver Mtukudzi In his path, Mtukudzi has left footprints for being polite to everyone especially in public. No wonder why he was named Unicef Goodwill Ambassador for the Southern African region. He might not have always been the king of etiquette in the music industry, but he has come a long way to be the kind of person he currently is. He is a hard worker who doesn’t expect anything to be handed to him, with 65 albums in hand; we surely can forgive some of the antics in his younger days. 4. The Charambas The Charambas The first family of Zimbabwe’s gospel music and the well-mannered celebrity couple so far. I admire the way they value ethical behaviour, I just wish all parents would teach their children appropriate behaviour especially in public. We can erode disrespectful characters in society. Even after receiving criticism on and off the stage, the duo keeps their chins up and their dignity intact. 5. Kirsty Coventry Kirsty Coventry Known as the “Golden girl” the swimming sensation is just but friendly and approachable. She signs autographs and accommodates everyone despite race, gender or religion. Other swimming champions describe her as a respectful and disciplined sportswoman; this is why Coventry has won numerous Olympic medals and is one of the most decorated Olympians from Africa. I also like the fact that she has gone beyond the backstroke and worked hard to develop the sport in the country through her academy. This shows that her entire world doesn’t centre on her. To me, Coventry is a walking library of sports etiquette and diplomacy. 6. Rebecca Chisamba Rebecca Chisamba Polite, generous and kind creator and host of the TV talk show, Mai Chisamba Show She displays her respectful character by using well sifted Shona vernacular language that she uses throughout the show with the audience. Ever smiling fan favourite, her humour attracts all. Watch her shows that tackle topical issues of the day that affect the modern Zimbabwean society. One lady who never tiers to say “please”, “thank you” and “welcome” when talking to someone. 7. Arthur C Evans Arthur C Evans Top male celebrity in the country from Matabeleland, Evans also known as “ACE” has inspired many aspiring gentlemen in the country. Despite his achievements and popularity, he knows when and how to swallow his pride especially in public. An emblem of good manners, I personally feel the ACE is a perfect example of real men with real style. His followers label him as a humble and down to earth television personality. No doubt, his behaviour and sober character have seen him host quite a number of prestigious corporate events. There is a lot to emulate from Evans’ lifestyle. In sum, perception always differs, these aren’t the only poised, well-mannered, and gracious celebrities, but they are a good sampling of famous people who have maintained proper etiquette. It’s nice to know that some people can reach the pinnacle of fame and still be grounded. -Justice Simango is a Business Etiquette and Grooming Consultant who writes in his own capacity. He is a member of Toastmasters International. Feedback: justicesimango4@gmail.com