Elvis Moyo Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter WORLD Boxing Federation (WBF) All-Africa heavyweight champion Elvis Moyo says he wants to knockout Ukranian Maksym Pedyura in tonight’s international bout at the Harare City Sports Centre. The fight between Moyo and Pedyura will be the main supporting bout to the Zimbabwe national super bantamweight title fight between Tinashe Mwadziwana and Ronald Tamani. Mwadziwana and Tamani’s fight is scheduled for 12 rounds, while Moyo and Pedyura’s bout is eight rounds. “I’m always content with winning on points because it gives me rounds, which also gives me experience. However, in this particular fight, I want a TKO because I’m fighting an experienced boxer. Knocking him out will enhance my chances of securing more overseas opponents,” Moyo said. Inspired by his Sports Personality Award scooped at the Zimbabwe Achievers Awards (ZAA) in Sandton, Johannesburg, at the beginning of the month, Moyo said he is in perfect condition. “Preparations have gone on well and I think I’ve got enough sparring. My hand has healed and I’m in perfect condition. I’m ready to rumble. Being an eight-rounder, I have to be more physical, move a lot and my timing has to be spot on if I’m to knock him out. He has lots of experience, so I don’t want to jump into the deep end,” said Moyo. The Bulawayo Bomber, who is the draw card for the bill dubbed Kubatana, is excited to be a supporting act and challenged boxing lovers to come in their numbers. “It’s always good to be home or to be involved in fights supporting local boxers. Even if my fight isn’t a title fight, I’m giving my best so that I improve my record. There are a number of bouts that will involve Zimbabwean boxers and I’m appealing to my fellow Zimbabweans to come and support these boxers. For boxing to grow in our country, these young boxers need people’s support,” said Moyo. Musician Ammara Brown will provide entertainment in between bouts. In other bouts, Zimbabwe’s Wesley McDade will exchange blows with Bright Mdoka of Malawi in a six-round super middleweight bout, while WBF All-Africa cruiserweight champion Sting Gonorenda will trade leather with Djokito Sakuji from the Democratic Republic of Congo. All the fights will be live on Kwese TV. Meanwhile, amateur boxers from Zimbabwe and Botswana will trade leather at Sizinda South Beer Garden tomorrow. The organisers are expected to stage 60 bouts. — @ZililoR. 