President Mnangagwa AFTER years of isolation during which Zimbabwe was widely considered a pariah state, the country is slowly establishing a foothold on the world stage and gaining acceptance in various capitals — thanks to the new dispensation which is working hard to put the country back on a sound footing. During the last years of former President Robert Mugabe’s rule, the country was stagnant with no meaningful Foreign Direct Investment flowing in and this was down to the lack of clarity as regards the succession issue with potential investors adopting a wait and see attitude. It was difficult for investors to put their money into a country with an aged leader and whose ruling party was divided. All that is history now with President Mnangagwa opening Zimbabwe to the world with a raft of policies that are sweet music to the ears of investors. The President has worked the African continent where he has attended a number of summits and meetings on economic matters and explained the country’s new trajectory. Beyond the continent he has been to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, where he acquitted himself well in front of the gathered captains of industry and commerce. His Zimbabwe is Open for Business mantra has been well received across the world. It was also not a coincidence that President Mnangagwa chose China as his first nation outside the African continent to make a State visit. China is not only Zimbabwe’s all weather friend but the Asian giant — the world’s second biggest economy after the United States — has elevated its relations with Zimbabwe to a more comprehensive and mutually beneficial strategic partnership. There has been unwarranted criticism of President Mnangagwa’s foreign trips but the President has explained their necessity at this point when the country is seeking FDI and restoring relations with some powerful nations which were damaged under the former regime of ex-President Mugabe. Writing on his Facebook page from China on Friday, President Mnangagwa said he would work tirelessly at home and abroad to end Zimbabwe’s isolation and mend relations with the international community. “I have seen some comments here asking why these foreign trips are necessary at this time. Thank you for sharing your thoughts and I appreciate your opinions. “Let us remember where we were, and how we suffered as an isolated nation. In this new era Zimbabwe is open to the world, and governments, businesses and individuals all are looking to do business with us. The new Zimbabwe must embrace the international community in order to secure crucial foreign investment. These projects will create jobs, and foreign investment will inject crucial cash into our economy.” He vowed to continue his work for Zimbabwe. “I will therefore continue to work tirelessly for the people of Zimbabwe both at home and abroad, as we embark on this new and exciting journey together,” said President Mnangagwa. The President explained how his visit to China was beneficial to Zimbabwe. “Today, I conclude my first State visit outside of Africa, an historic visit which will help bring further crucial momentum to our economy. We had many fruitful discussions with political and business leaders in China, including President Xi Jinping, and secured a host of deals which will make a real difference to the lives of Zimbabweans,” he said. Added President Mnangagwa: “The refurbishment of Hwange Power Station Units 7 and 8 is set to increase power generation by 600 megawatts while we also secured a massive infrastructure development deal under which the world’s largest infrastructure development company will set up a regional office in Zimbabwe. They will focus on road, rail, air and dam construction projects and will be true partners in the development of the new Zimbabwe.” Apart from the US$1 billion Hwange Thermal Power Station deal that was finalised, the Kunzvi Project reached financial closure, with Sino Hydro and China Communications Construction Company (CCCC) committing to provide resources for a dam and water treatment plant, and to rollout installation of smart prepaid water meters. Other projects that will get immediate funding totalling about US$1 billion include Robert Mugabe International Airport expansion, a new Parliament Building, NetOne’s expansion, refurbishment of Morton Jeffrey Water Treatment Plant, and construction of a pharmaceutical factory among others. Zimbabwe and China also signed a US$1 billion tourism memorandum of understanding. President Xi Jinping’s government extended a special RMB1 billion (close to US$160 million) facility for Zimbabwe to draw down over three years, and US$20 million to assist President Mnangagwa’s administration. Chinese investors offered to fund construction of roads and railways, while one wants to build a multi-million dollar five-star hotel in Victoria Falls. Officials from Oriental State Chinese agreed to set up industrial parks in special economic zones. Critics of President Mnangagwa’s foreign trips need to be fair in their assessment of the benefits of these visits and give credit where it’s due.