World Boxing Federation (WBF) All-Africa heavyweight champion Elvis Moyo pounds Ukrainian Maksym Pedyura in Harare last Friday Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter WORLD Boxing Federation (WBF) All-Africa heavyweight champion Elvis Moyo is basking in glory following Friday night’s technical knockout of Ukrainian Maksym Pedyura in Harare. The Bulawayo Bomber, as Moyo is known, lived to his pre-match target of a knockout win by flooring the Ukrainian boxer after two minutes 49 seconds of the first-round. The South Africa-based Zimbabwean fighter, who returned to his base on Saturday, said he is itching for more international fights and believes his victory over Pedyura proves that he deserves more international fights. “I said it before the fight that I want to knock him out and that’s exactly what I did. What I told myself is that when I fight an overseas fighter, I have to knock them out so that they take me seriously and enhance my chances of getting more challenges. “However, when fighting African guys, I prefer to have more rounds and give them false hope that they can beat me and also attract more challengers. I think after this fight my team will try and get me another international bill so that I prove that my win over an experienced guy like Pedyura wasn’t a fluke,” said Moyo. The fight was the main supporting bout to the Zimbabwe National Super Bantamweight title fight between Tinashe Mwadziwana and Ronald Tamani. Mwadziwana was crowned champion after Tamani failed to cope and suffered a deep cut on his left eye in the fifth round. In other fights, Wesley McDade wowed the crowd, knocking out Chris Bobo of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in the second-round of the super middleweight fight. World Boxing Federation African cruiserweight champion Chamunorwa “Sting” Gonorenda continued with his fine form, knocking out Djokito Sakuji of DRC. Crowd favourite Monalisa Sibanda was knocked out after one minute 40 seconds into the women’s lightweight title match by Chiedza Homakoma. Meanwhile, Moyo has challenged UK-based Zimbabwean pugilist Dereck Chisora to return home for a fight. This is the second time Moyo has publicly challenged Chisora, with the first being in January when he successfully defended his World Boxing Federation All-Africa heavyweight title against Congolose Kilola Lubika “Knife” Didier. “Dereck Chisora should come and fight then after I knock him out he packs his bags and goes back to England,” Moyo said. @ZililoR