Mrs Nesisa Mpofu Prince Sunduzani, Chronicle Reporter VENDORS and transport operators in Bulawayo have complained of lack of ablution facilities at new vending sites and termini following the closure of Egodini Bus Terminus. In interviews yesterday, vendors said people were now using alleys to relieve themselves, hence the city council must come up with a solution. Commuter omnibuses and vendors were last month moved from Egodini to pave way for the multi-million dollar project to construct a mall at the site. Informal traders and transport operators who operate at Lobengula Street between 11th and 13th Avenue said they were using toilets at a nearby hotel at the moment, but the facilities were overwhelmed by the number of vendors, patrons and transport operators who operate from the area. “The place has become smelly, men just relieve themselves here and us women are forced to go to Waverly hotel. Our health is at risk as there can be outbreak of diseases such as cholera. We are calling on the city council to act quickly because this is not working,” said Ms Nomathemba Moyo. Vendors are the hardest hit by the problem as they spend most of their time at the new workspaces. Mr Mthulisi Ncube, a kombi driver, queried why the city council moved them without taking into account what people would use. “BCC forced us to move from Egodini and come here. They told us all was in place but we don’t have toilets. Why did they move us when they knew that they were not ready? We need action and hopefully something will be done soon,” he said. The city’s senior public relations officer, Mrs Nesisa Mpofu, is on record as saying the local authority was in the process of ensuring that all designated sites have ablution facilities. She said at the 13th Avenue and Lobengula Street site, they were in the process of renovating the facilities there to add more toilet seats to accommodate the public. Last week, Bulawayo councillors urged residents to be patient and stick to the temporary commuter omnibus ranks and vending bays as the city does not have enough space to accommodate them. Speaking during a full council meeting, they said while they understood the confusion and complaints regarding the temporary pick-up and drop-off points in the city, there was a need for residents to look at the bigger picture of a modernised Egodini Bus Terminus.—@PrinceNkosy102