Wonder Chabikwa Business Reporter THE Zimbabwe Commercial Farmers Union (ZCFU) has welcomed the launch of Command Wheat Programme by Government saying the initiative guarantees farmers’ availability of inputs starting this season. Vice-President General Constantino Chiwenga launched Command Wheat Programme this week with the Government targeting 50 000 hectares under winter wheat this year while a further 17 000ha would be funded by other contractors. ZCFU president Mr Wonder Chabikwa said in an interview that wheat farmers were this year better prepared for the season compared to previous seasons when availability of inputs gave them headaches. In recent years, Zimbabwe’s wheat production dropped to as low as 20 000ha with yields averaging 1,5 tonnes per ha due to a number of challenges farmers faced. Mr Chabikwa however, said farmers might not be able to plant the required hectarage within the planting window due to the late harvesting of 2017/18 season crops. “All farmers who want to grow wheat have already registered with Agritex and inputs will be provided under the Command Wheat Programme,” he said. Government has already started mobilising inputs to ensure early delivery to farmers to enable them to plant early. Lands, Agriculture and Irrigation Development Minister Air Marshal (Retired) Perrance Shiri is on record saying this time around, farmers would access inputs for winter wheat early. Under normal circumstances, wheat should be planted from May 1 to 26. “Through the Command Agriculture programme, the Government is providing fuel, seed, fertilisers and chemicals as well as repairing and maintenance of machinery,” said Mr Chabikwa. He said while farmers were appreciative of the efforts being made in supporting agriculture, Government needs to prioritise the retooling of irrigation infrastructure. “Wherever there was an irrigation scheme, let’s go and resuscitate the infrastructure so that we maximise wheat production to reduce the country’s wheat import bill,” Mr Chabikwa said. Zimbabwe requires 460 000 tonnes of wheat per year but is producing about 300 000 tonnes.