Bulawayo Chiefs’ striker Farai Matare (left) tries to make his way past Makomo defender Kainos Masocha at Hartsfield Ground yesterday. Bulawayo Chiefs won 2-0 to secure a place into the Premier Soccer League next season. Ricky ZililoSenior,  Sports Reporter DESPITE not knowing who they face in their opening match of the Southern Region Division One Soccer League season that kicks off on Saturday, ambitious Hwange side, Makomo, have declared their readiness for the championship. Makomo are supposed to start their 2018 campaign with an away trip to either NRZ Leopards of Dete or Bulawayo’s Chiwororo, who are yet to affiliate with the league. Zifa Southern Region was still waiting for either NRZ Leopards or Chiwororo to pay their affiliation fees by the close of business yesterday. The region has indicated that should the two fail to affiliate; the Division One League will kick-off with 15 teams. However, Makomo were yesterday praying that their opening day opponents affiliate so that they don’t get a bye. Lewis Jeche, the club’s secretary-general, said they are eager to get the ball rolling. “We’re ready for the start of the season despite not knowing who we play. Our worry is to be given a bye. We hope to get communication from the region on whom we are playing soon so that we plan the logistics. The guys are raring to go,” said Jeche. Makomo added veteran coach Rahman Gumbo to their technical team at the beginning of the year, as they seek to challenge for a direct ticket to the Premiership. Makomo finished third last season behind champions Bulawayo Chiefs and runners-up ZPC Hwange. The roping in of Gumbo, whose contract with former Premiership champions Chicken Inn ended last year, is an indication that Makomo are angling for the title. They also added experienced players to their squad, who include ex-Chicken Inn and Bulawayo Chiefs midfielder Makhosi Ncube, former Chiefs utility player Joseph Museve and defender Julius Daudi, formerly with Railstars and Highlanders. Former Highlanders, Bulawayo City and Talen Vision goalkeeper Ashford Katsande and ex-national Under-20 as well as Chicken Inn midfielder Amos Ncube are part of Makomo’s camp. “We will unveil the squad at the end of the week. We added a few players to reinforce our squad and took them with us for a week-long training camp in Bulawayo where we also had our team building session. Otherwise we are good to go,” Jeche said. Meanwhile, the 2018 Southern Region Division One league promises to be more competitive than last season when Bulawayo Chiefs ran away with the title by mid-season. Pre-season favourites Hwange, who are eager for an early return to the Premiership, as well as Tsholotsho FC, perennial campaigners and last season’s runners-up ZPC Hwange, Makomo and Bulawayo-based Talen Vision, are expected to put up a strong title challenge. Army side Indlovu Iyanyathela, Zim Leopards, Bosso 90 and new boys Toronto FC of Pumula East also can’t be ruled out. Fixtures Week 1 (April 14): Talen Vision v Zim Leopards (Gifford High), Tsholotsho v Casmyn (Luveve), ZRP Bulawayo v CIWU (Fairbridge), Moto Moto v Main Line (Hwange), ZPC Hwange v Hwange (Hwange), Mosi Rovers v Toronto (Chinotimba), Bosso 90 v Indlovu Iyanyathela (Luveve,12PM), NRZ Leopards/Chiwororo v Makomo Week 2 (April 18): Main Line v NRZ Leopards/Chiwororo (Plumtree), Zim Leopards v ZPC Hwange (Raylton), Hwange v Mosi Rovers (Hwange), Casmyn v Bosso 90 (Turk Mine), CIWU v Moto Moto (Crescent), Makomo v Talen Vision (Hwange), Indovu Iyanyathela v ZRP Bulawayo (Mzilikazi Barracks), Toronto v Tsholotsho (Raylton, 12PM) Week 3 (April 21): ZRP Bulawayo v Casmyn (Fairbridge), Moto Moto v Indlovu Iyanyathela (Hwange), NRZ Leopards/Chiwororo v CIWU, Talen Vision v Main Line (Gifford High), ZPC Hwange v Makomo (Hwange), Mosi Rovers v Zim Leopards (Chinotimba), Tsholotsho v Hwange (Luveve), Bosso 90 v Toronto (Luveve, 12PM) Week 4 (April 28): Casmyn v Moto Moto (Turk Mine), Indlovu Iyanyathela v NRZ Leopards/Chiwororo, CIWU v Talen Vision (Crescent), Makomo v Mosi Rovers (Hwange), Zim Leopards v Tsholotsho (Raylton), Hwange v Bosso 90 (Hwange), Toronto v ZRP Bulawayo (Raylton), Main Line v ZPC Hwange (Plumtree). — @ZililoR.