Minister July Moyo Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent GOVERNMENT has challenged local authorities to be at the forefront of promoting President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s Zimbabwe is open for business policy to create a conducive environment for investment. Addressing representatives of local authorities at a Bulawayo hotel on Thursday, the Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing, Cde July Moyo, urged local authorities to embrace the open for business mantra as it stands to benefit them more. He said local authorities should take deliberate steps to create a business environment that does not frustrate investors. “Our President declared that Zimbabwe is open for business. We have to ask ourselves whether in your local authority you are open for business,” the Minister said. “Being open for business entails creating a one-stop shop for your own area, not only for the nation. Providing services promptly and charging fairly for services, cutting red tape and removing investor frustration.” The Minister said creating an investor friendly environment will stir an economic boom at local level. Cde Moyo said local authorities’ executives should use investment platforms to market their resources and pull investors. “Ladies and gentlemen the quest for local economic development needs us to open our doors to investment. As chief executive officers, mayors, town clerks, chairpersons, you are the ambassadors of your areas. You are expected to know the opportunities that your council boast of and be articulate to market those zones,” he said. “Critical to note is that the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair is a platform for you to market to investors what opportunities exist in your own areas.” Cde Moyo urged local authorities to embark on joint ventures with private players in developing their areas. “That interface with potential investors should encourage local authorities to go into partnerships with the private sector within the public, private and joint venture framework,” said Cde Moyo. “I want to tell those who enter into joint ventures that the Government has established a joint venture facility. We don’t have to go through the scary issues of tendering but you negotiate. There is a unit in the Ministry of Finance that can fast track joint venture activities in the shortest time.” He said those who enter into developmental partnerships will not face too many hurdles compared to those who go it alone. — @nqotshili