Beatrice Tonhodzayi Prince Sunduzani THE country’s leading printing and publishing group, Zimpapers will yet again exhibit at this year’s edition of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair, to showcase its business solutions and re-affirm its position not only as a publisher but as an all round solutions provider. The prime trade showcase starts today and will run till April 28 under the theme, “Sustainable Industrial Development-Inclusive, competitive, collaborative”. With more vigour, coming from a recent re-engineering and re-organisation of its business model, the Zimpapers exhibition stand is a must visit for any serious players looking for fruitful business deals. The company has gone beyond just being a newspaper company and has become a business that provides solutions to other businesses. “We’re coming to the ZITF with the mobile news manager. We’re found now in spaces that we never used to exist. We’re even selling digital products such as mobile phones and we’ll bring them to the ZITF. “We’ve unveiled our new business model which has seen us breaking down the digital and publishing division. The radio broadcasting services division, commercial printing and packaging and we also have our Zimpapers Television Network,” Zimpapers public relations manager, Ms Beatrice Tonhodzayi said. This year, the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange-listed company is focusing on the packaging and printing division of the business. In response to the President’s call for accelerated industrial growth and job creation, Zimpapers is leading the pack as it continues to expand and also help other businesses expand. “We resonate well with the President’s call to grow industry so we’re seeing an opportunity to grow in terms of the printing and packaging business,” said Ms Tonhodzayi. She called on those looking to have print and packaging solutions for food, beverages and other things, to visit the Zimpapers stand and interact with the best. “It has become a business that provides solutions to other businesses. So if your solution is advertising, that you must be read or heard, packaging for food, drinks or beer, Zimpapers is the place to be,” said Ms Tonhodzayi. A business cannot thrive without proper marketing and advertising and Zimpapers has perfect solutions for that with its widely read newspaper stable, radio stations and a new kid on the block, the Zimpapers Television Network. The company continues to dominate the media market with The Herald and Chronicle, now read by a combined 40 percent of all Zimbabwean adults and 51 percent of the urban adult population, about twice the readership of the number two. In radio, Star-FM, the largest Zimpapers station, leads with 45 percent of urban adult listeners although it is just pipped nationally by Radio Zimbabwe, a ZBC station specially orientated to the rural listenership. The company is looking to engage with several businesses at this year’s edition of the annual trade showcase and the company CEO will be at the stand to attend to prospective clients. The group will also bring radio to the people as it gives individuals an opportunity to interact with radio personalities. “In broadcast, we’ll be having a separate stand where the broadcasting division will be housed. We’ve got radio stations. Those who want to interact with our personalities should have an opportunity away from the serious business stand,” she said. Zimpapers publishes The Herald, Chronicle, The Sunday Mail, Sunday News, Manica Post, UMthunywa, Zimtravel, B-Metro, H-Metro, Kwayedza and owns radio stations Star FM, Diamond FM and Capitalk FM. It also owns Zimpapers TV Network and NatPrint. @PrinceNkosy102