Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent TALENT search competition Dream Star will this year visit universities to scout for talent there. The show, an entertainment platform that seeks to empower local talented youths aged between 12 and 40 to help them rise from the backstage to the official stage, will begin auditioning students from the University of Zimbabwe next Saturday. From there, the team will head to Midlands State University on May 5 and Chinhoyi University of Technology on May 9. Dream Star spokesperson, Tinashe Kitchen, said audition dates for Nust and Great Zimbabwe University (GZU) were still being finalised. “For National University of Science and Technology, we’re still negotiating dates with the university. For Great Zimbabwe University, we had to postpone because of student demos there,” said Kitchen. He said winners of the national competition set for August this year will stand a chance to compete during the Chibuku Neshamwari Traditional Dance Festival that has been held in Bulawayo for the past years. “We’ve got a partnership with Chibuku Neshamwari which is celebrating 55 years and wants the competition to be special this year. As the competition is for traditional dance, this year, they wanted to include some contemporary hip hop dancers. “So, while scouting for Dream Star talent, we’ll also look for at least one dance group per audition to compete at the Chibuku Neshamwari national finals under a hip hop category,” said Kitchen. He said outstanding groups at the university tours will pocket $200. “We want to identify gifted artistes at universities whom we believe are the epicentres of talent. So for the winners, besides getting a chance to travel, study and work in China, they are in the running to secure scholarships. This is one way that talented students can use their gifts to do good for themselves,” said Kitchen. Harare all-male music group, Footprints, won last year’s competition and pocketed $3 000 and a recording contract. Tsoro Arts (a marimba ensemble) and Chinhoyi University of Technology student, emcee Taliban, received $1 500 and $750 respectively for occupying second and third position.