Welshman Sibanda Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent TWO years ago, award-winning stylist, Welshman Sibanda, planned to launch his own clothing line Welsh the Stylist, but had to shelve those plans after realising that he was not capacitated to do so as he could design and style but could not sew. Welsh the Stylist as Sibanda is known therefore opted to enrol for a tailoring course at a Bulawayo college in order to capacitate himself. “I’ve been trying to launch my clothing line for the past two years but it’s been difficult as I couldn’t sew. I could only design through sketching and had to contract people to make the designs a reality which in the end proved costly as I had to buy the fabric and all,” Welsh said. “As a way to capacitate myself, I decided to go to a local college and study pattern cutting, grading and designing. I’m left with two months to finish then I’ll definitely launch the clothing label as I’ll be in a better position to do so.” When he completes his course, Welsh, who is one of the best dressed men in the city, said he would be able to tailor make designs that go along with his unique vintage style that has earned him numerous awards. His vintage look is reminiscent of the 60s and 70s with a modern twist to his fashion sense that made him stand out and win Best dressed male at the Zimbabwe Fashion Week and Style Icon at the Matabeleland Fashion Week. By enrolling for a tailoring course, the Gwanda-born designer seems to have taken a cue from leading retail store Edgars on the need for local designers to know how to sew. The store some years ago took on board local designers to teach them the basics of garment construction. Welsh the Stylist said he was in talks with Open Eye Studio headed by former Miss Tourism Zimbabwe Samantha Tshuma to help him launch his label. Also, as a way to promote his brand, the stylist has been pursuing a music career. He has released two house tracks, Ngiyakukhumbula and Move your body that are already receiving airplay on Skyz Metro FM and Breeze FM. “I realised that in order to push my clothing label, I had to incorporate music as fashion and music go hand in hand. This way, I’ll be able promote my brand live on stage and through music videos where I’ll be wearing clothes by Welsh the Stylist.”