Lovemore Zigara in Gweru THE Zimbabwe General Medical Aid Fund Zifa Central Soccer League (ZGMAF — CSL) kicks of this afternoon with six fixtures lined up across the province. Thrills are expected this season following a $45 000 sponsorship injection by the Gweru-based medical aid firm, Zimbabwe General Medical Aid Fund (ZGMAF). Moreblessing Kunyangwe, the ZGMAF principal officer, said apart from the sponsorship package, there is a lot in store for the fans who will be coming to watch the games. Seasoned campaigners Tongogara  ZPC Munyati, Ivan Hoe together with former Premiership side Whawha, are favourites to land the sole promotional ticket from the region. However, league debutants Sheasham and Lesaffre cannot be ruled out in the championship matrix if the pre-season activity is anything to go by. Sheasham signed players with Premiership experience in former Dynamos and Triangle midfielder Stephen Alimenda, the ex-Shabanie Mine duo of Victor Twaliki and Michael Mageja, a sign of their intentions. Lesaffre have also brought in talented youngsters and roped in former Tripple B gaffer Peter Manoti to steer the yeast manufacturers’ ship. The pick of this weekend’s fixtures pits Tongogara and bogey side, TelOne, at Battlefields this afternoon. Tongogara has a largely unchanged side save for Nhlanhla Ncube who is on loan from Chapungu and Tinashe Guvise from FC Platinum Under 19. Kelvin Maphosa, the Tongogara gaffer, said the opening games would determine their destiny for this season. “What we did last year is history and our focus is to ensure that we make a good start this year. Our opening five games will determine where we will be at the end of the season. We want to have a positive start to the season and a win against TelOne will give us the impetus,” he said. His TelOne counterpart, Highlanders legend, Joel Luphahla, said he is looking to finish in the top eight and would equally want to get off to a positive start. Fixtures Today: MSU vs Ivan Hoe (MSU), FC Platinum vs Vumbachikwe (Mandava), Tongogara vs TelOne (Battlefields), Chrome Stars vs Sheasham (Chrome) Tomorrow: Lesaffre vs ZPC Munyati (Wilson Fields), Blanket Mine vs Whawha (Blanket)