A netball club official signs for her side’s package at the Glow Petroleum funded Rainbow Netball League tournament at White City Stadium last month. Looking on is the RNL secretary general Moses Gukurume (holding wads of cash), Glow Petroleum owner and managing director Aaron Chinhara (seated) and RNL chairperson Melody Garikai. Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter AN unprecedented revolt by sports personalities in Zimbabwe looms following revelations that netball players and those in solidarity with them are planning a massive protest in the next coming days to force the Zimbabwe Netball Association (Zina) leadership to step down over allegations of exploiting players and failing to adhere to the tenets of good corporate governance. The cocktail of demands also include that Zina must either speedily amend it’s bylaws as directed by the Sports and Recreation Commission so as to register the recently formed and well funded Rainbow Amateur Netball League which enjoys a $250 000 sponsorship from Glow Petroleum or be removed from leadership of the association. The SRC recently issued an order directing  Zina, under the leadership of Leticia Chipandu, to expeditiously amend it’s bylaws and Constitution so as to register the new league. The country’s supreme sports body said registration of RNL must not take longer than acceptable but      there has not been any movement from the Zina camp to follow the order, with sources saying someone in the SRC top echelons was behind the Zina’s behaviour. “As players we are saying enough is enough. Zina has exploited us for far too long with nothing being done all because they believe they have protection from SRC. It’s either they register Rainbow Netball League soon because we want to play or they step down enmasse and new Zina leadership with love of the game not money gets in. “We will be marching in huge numbers in protest until our demands are met and we are even prepared to meet the Minister of Sport (Raymond Kazembe) and tell him our grievances because these people have been abusing us for far too long. Some of their activities can actually lead to criminal charges so it’s to their own good that they heed our calls,” said one player who has represented Zimbabwe on numerous occasions but has nothing to show for it. “We sustained injuries while on national duty yet some people were smiling all the way to the bank and now a new horizon beckons but what do they do, they start threatening clubs by spreading malicious lies about someone who has committed to changing the face of netball in the country,” said another player. Following the unveiling of the Glow Petroleum package to RNL and in the run up to the hugely successful tournament that saw over 21 netball teams in attendance at White City Stadium early last month, some Zina executive members sent threatening messages to uniformed services teams alleging that the event was sponsored by political opposition elements despite the fact that Glow Petroleum had on numerous occasions bailed out Zina but pulled out due to unprofessional conduct of it’s leadership. In it’s order to Zina the SRC, however, still noted that the association was still legally mandated to run organised netball in the country. “It is the view of the SRC that the registration of RNL will not take an inordinate amount of time. It is therefore incumbent upon Zina to ensure that the process of registering RNL is expedited. We must also bring to the attention of the public that once the Zina constitution is amended, the amendments have to be registered by the SRC board in terms of the SRC Act. “It is hoped that the above action will bring sanity in the running of netball in the country, but we must also make it overt that Zina remains registered with the SRC and that position has not changed,” the SRC said.