Mr Joseph Gunda Business Reporter THE Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries (CZI) has started convening elective annual general meetings for all its chapters across the country starting with the Matabeleland chapter today. CZI Matabeleland chapter president Mr Joseph Gunda yesterday said their AGM would elect executive committee members who have a maximum term of office of two years. “We are having our chamber’s AGM and this event is elective where the president, first and second vice presidents are elected. Their term of office is normally a year but is renewable so the 15 executive members have an option to continue for another year making it a maximum of two years,” he said. “Elections are held every year if members feel that the current executive has served one year and so they can continue for another year.” Asked if there is an opportunity for him to be re-elected as the chapter’s president, Mr Gunda said: “I have a passion of seeing Bulawayo turning around, and if there is that opportunity and members still feel that I can contribute towards that dream, I would really need to finish that kind of work.” The Matabeleland chapter’s AGM will be held at the chamber’s offices in Bulawayo. “The first session of the AGM will be a closed door meeting and immediately after the elections have been held, it will be an open session. “Included in the AGM’s closed door session are our proposals from the chamber at national level,” said Mr Gunda. He said the Matabeleland chapter has also asked for an address by a representative of the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe who is expected to speak on the prevailing economic climate with particular reference to the challenges facing industries. “We have also requested Zimra (Zimbabwe Revenue Authority) officials to be there to explain what is happening on their side,” Mr Gunda said. After the Matabeleland chapter AGM, similar events will be convened for the Midlands, Manicaland and Harare chapters in the next few weeks ahead of the CZI AGM later this year.