Tendai Chikuni Lovemore Zigara in Gweru Chapungu 0-2 FC Platinum DEFENDING champions FC Platinum returned to Gweru’s Ascot Stadium to inflict the same pain on Chapungu, beating the airmen 2-0 yesterday. On the last day of last season, FC Platinum beat Chapungu at the same venue by the same scoreline. Second half goals by Ali Sadiki and Gift Mbweti ensured that the Zvishavane-based outfit maintained their unbeaten run in the league, and kept breathing at the back of Ngezi Platinum Stars who top the table with 15 points. FC Platinum are second, tied on 13 points with Highlanders after five games. For yesterday’s result, Chapungu have themselves to blame after squandering five clear cut chances in the first half where they should have buried the platinum miners. Veteran Chapungu forward Phillip Marufu had one of his attempts careening off the cross bar. Chapungu gaffer Tendai Chikuni believes their failure to convert chances cost them points. “We could have wrapped the game in the first half where we hit the pole and in football if you do not utilise your chances you are bound to be punished. We conceded soft goals and the result is not a true reflection of the match,” Chikuni said. After being overrun in the first half, FC Platinum’s stand-in coach Lizwe Sweswe made tactical changes after the breather, congesting his midfield and adding firepower upfront taking off an ineffective Mkhokheli Dube for Mbweti and the move paid dividends. “I told my lads during half time to control the midfield, play our passing game, be patient and we will get the goals. And thats what exactly happened. I am happy we managed to collect maximum points after a tough game,” said Sweswe. Lizwe Sweswe After a “Waru Waru” dominated first stanza where Moenda Muchingami, Allen Tavarwisa and Phillip Marufu took turns to miss, it was FC Platinum who took the initiative to bury the game. Having taken control of the game in the first half and enjoying the wind advantage, Jameson Mukombwe found possession on the corner flag before whipping in a cross into the box which found Sadiki in the 64th minute. The former TP Mazembe man controlled the ball before firing to the right hand corner leaving Talbert Shumba in goals for the home side a mere spectator. Fourteen minutes later, Mbweti doubled FC Platinum’s lead when he was released by reigning Soccer Star of the Year Rodwell Chinyengetere, before he charged towards goal in the process beating an outdrawn Shumba by placing the ball in an empty net silencing the home crowd. Cameroonian import, Albert Eonde, could have killed the match as a contest on the stroke of full time but his effort hit the side net. Teams Chapungu: T Shumba, C Mativenga, R Bota, B Mbavarira, C Kwaramba, M Muchingami, T Kumbuyani (M Mavuto 67 min), E Muzanenhamo, A Tavarwisa, P Marufu, B Chihowa (B Sahondo 71 min) FC Platinum: F Tizayi, J Mukombwe, G Bello , K Moyo, E Moyo, K Madzongwe, R Chinyengetere (J Tigere 87 min), F Madhanhanga, M Dube (G Mbweti 52 min), A Eonde, A Sadiki (C Sibanda 87 min) @lavuzigara1