Internationally acclaimed dance group Inkululeko Yabatsha School of Arts (Iyasa) performs at a ceremony held at Famona Fire Station in Bulawayo last Thursday. Showbiz Correspondent THE Easter weekend is not only about the Easter Bunny, chocolate eggs, Jesus’ death and subsequent resurrection, it is also a good time to catch up with family, but unfortunately, it seems some local celebrities had hectic schedules which made it impossible for them to be with family. The holiday that ended on Monday, for some, was the rest they needed after a hectic three months from the beginning of the year, while for some, it marked the beginning of a “working” season as most notable events and festivals start in April. While some locally, were busy dancing to tunes like Kutongwa Kwaro, Ndin’ Ndamubata and Nziyo Yerudo at weddings, parties and nightclubs, the man behind these tunes – Jah Prayzah was in South Africa chasing the paper. “Jah Prayzah flew out on Friday and performed in Cape Town while on Saturday, he was in Johannesburg. He only got to spend time with his family on Sunday afternoon,” said his manager, Keen Mushapaidze. On Monday, the artiste was back in studio working on new music. Comedian Carl Joshua Ncube, who now resides in Victoria Falls, spent most of his time cooking for friends he was hosting over the Easter holiday. He also extended his recipes to patrons at Zambezi House as he also cooked for them on Saturday during a Cook Out session. “Friends from Kadoma came over to Vic Falls for the Easter weekend. I enjoyed spending time with them but it was not all fun and games as I, on Saturday, performed for a Jewish delegation that had come to visit Zimbabwe,” said Ncube. Award winning and globetrotting dance group, Iyasa had a hectic holiday as they were busy with various functions around Bulawayo. “We were performing at weddings and private functions around the city as from Friday. All in all, there was no rest for the group as we are also preparing to leave the country for Europe,” said Iyasa director Nkululeko Dube. Former Miss Tourism and now founder of modelling agency Open eye Studio, Samantha Tshuma, said she spent her Easter weekend at home with friends and family. “I didn’t get to do anything out of the ordinary this Easter holiday. I needed to rest after a hectic month, so I was at home most of the time spending quality time with the children, family and friends. I went to church also,” said Tshuma. Local Rappers Cal_Vin and ASAPH were spotted out at nightspots such as newly opened Zarah Lounge and Red Cafe. Churches in the city were also a hive of activity as they held Easter activities such as the Roman Catholics and Anglicans who held special services on Sunday to commemorate the death of Jesus Christ. Others churches held conferences from Friday until Sunday as part of their Easter celebration programme. Across the border, famous entertainer, Zodwa Wabantu, who had a series of shows lined up, made headlines in South Africa after getting into a verbal spat with female fans. Zodwa decided to invite one of the ladies to the stage and humiliated her by pulling off her wig and telling the crowd that it was cheap hair.