 Grace Nyoni, Midlands Reporter POLICE have launched a manhunt for a 35-year-old man from Gweru who allegedly stabbed his ex-wife with a knife several times in the chest after reading some love messages on her phone. Acting Midlands Police spokesperson Sergeant Xolani Dube said police were looking for Lovemore Chagonda of Clifton Park in Gweru on allegations of stabbing his ex-wife Ms Valentine Chikanya over some love messages which he found in her cellphone. Chagonda, Sgt Dube said, was facing attempted murder charges following the incident that happened last Tuesday near Mutasa dumping site in Woodlands suburb, Gweru. “Police in Gweru are investigating a case of attempted murder where the complainant Valentine Chikanya was stabbed with a knife by her jealous former husband near Mutasa dumping site in Gweru,” he said. Sgt Dube said on Monday at around 10AM, Chagonda visited his ex-wife before inviting her to his workplace to collect some firewood. “It is alleged that the two were once married and later divorced. On Tuesday the complainant went to her former husband’s workplace as per their agreement. Upon arrival it is alleged that he took the complainant’s cellphone and started scrolling through her messages and discovered some love messages,” said Sgt Dube. He said Chagonda was allegedly incensed by the love messages before he drew a knife from his pocket and stabbed her. “It is alleged that he took out a knife from his pocket and viciously stabbed the complainant several times all over her body. Chikanya sustained severe injuries on her stomach and breasts before she became unconscious,” said Sgt Dube. He said after committing the offence, Chagonda fled from the scene leaving Chikanya lying on the ground. “A good Samaritan found Chikanya lying unconscious in a pool of blood and called an ambulance which rushed her to Gweru Provincial Hospital where she is still admitted. The complainant narrated her ordeal,” said Sgt Dube. He said the matter was reported to the police who have since launched a manhunt for Chagonda.