Lloyd Mutasa Eddie Chikamhi, Harare Bureau Dynamos 1-1 Yadah Stars DYNAMOS games are never short of drama these days and yesterday the Glamour Boys scrapped a point in an incident-filled Castle Lager Premiership match against Yadah Stars that saw supporters and players scampering for cover at half-time after police accidentally discharged a teargas canister. There was also “a moment of madness” which saw the visitors’ captain Jimmy Dzingai being sent off in a tense second half at Rufaro. Yadah had threatened to add to DeMbare’s frustrations in front of the restless home supporters, especially with the Harare Derby against old enemies Caps United coming up next weekend. Dynamos had sought to use the game against Yadah to end their winless streak but there was no joy for Lloyd Mutasa’s youthful side as they were forced to fight for their point by coming from behind. In fact striker Kudakwashe Kumwala saved the winless Harare giants the blushes with a late second half screamer that cancelled out Leeroy Mavhunga’s fourth minute strike. Yadah who played with better conviction in the opening with Mavhunga lively, appeared set to hold onto their slender lead but the thoughtless delaying tactics by their goalkeeper Steven Chimusoro, which also irked the Dynamos fans behind his goal, eventually led to their loss of concentration in a game they had the upper hand. As some missiles rained in Chimusoro’s goal area, Yadah captain, Jimmy Dzingai, lost his cool and got entangled in a battle against the fans, which earned him his marching orders. Dzingai  who had been marshalling the Yadah defence was shown a straight red by referee Munyaradzi Majoni following his reckless behaviour to throw missiles back at DeMbare supporters who had targeted Chimusoro in the 63rd minute after he went down again in his unrelenting antics to chew away at the clock. There were several stoppages which killed the rhythm of the game and seemed to work in favour of Yadah. But the frustrations in the terraces among the DeMbare faithful were telling as early as the 39th minute when the Dynamos supporters rained missiles on the pitch protesting a throw in decision that went against them. Although victory keeps evading them, DeMbare coach Lloyd Mutasa still sounded positive despite his latest setback. “It’s a point gained but we feel we had some few chances that if we could have buried we should have come out with three points. But such is the nature of football. We will go back to the drawing board and we work in terms of our finishing. “Obviously as a coach or as a team every game that you play you would want to come out victorious but such is the nature of the game. “We are not happy, we are still in search of those three points and I am sure it’s just a matter of breaking the duck. Just look at the creativity, the chances that came our way and the conversion rate is not directly proportional,” said Mutasa.