President Emmerson Mnangagwa WE are encouraged by the sober and open-minded approach to the re-engagement efforts which the European Union has adopted in its dealings with Zimbabwe and hope that their example will be emulated by other powerful nations such as the United States of America. Relations between Zimbabwe and the EU have gradually thawed over the years resulting in the easing of sanctions against Harare and there is a strong likelihood that the remaining portion of the punitive measures will be removed in toto soon after the forthcoming harmonised elections which the Government has vowed will be held in a credible, free and fair manner. International diplomacy requires there be mutual respect and trust between parties and so far the EU has shown that it has faith in the new administration under President Mnangagwa and is confident of its ability to deliver on its promises. The report card on the President’s first 100 days in office has been encouraging with most of the key deliverables having been accomplished particularly on the political front. There had been an outcry from opposition parties that under the previous Government, political tolerance was a serious problem with violence preceding crucial elections. There were also complaints about the playing field not being level because of alleged irregularities with the voters’ roll, access to the media, intimidation and a plethora of other grievances. In the current environment, President Mnangagwa has moved to address most of the issues raised by the opposition and although it is still work in progress, there is very little the opposition can complain about in as far as preparations for the forthcoming polls are concerned. In fact, it is ironic that the main opposition MDC-T is at the forefront of intra-party violence in the build up to the elections where it is engaged in an ugly leadership contestation between Advocate Nelson Chamisa and Dr Thokozani Khupe. We reported yesterday how six suspected MDC-T supporters were arrested for allegedly setting alight a bus hired by MDC Alliance supporters from Gweru at White City Stadium on Saturday, destroying property worth $2 500. They allegedly poured petrol on the rear side of the bus before they set it alight. The incident followed ugly scenes at the party’s Bulawayo provincial offices earlier this year where supporters of Dr Khupe were bashed by youths loyal to Adv Chamisa who also destroyed cars. Dr Khupe was also beaten up and almost burnt alive at the burial of party leader Mr Morgan Tsvangirai in Buhera. Meanwhile, Government has approved a list of 46 countries, 15 regional and continental bodies to observe general elections as President Mnangagwa’s administration makes good its pledge for transparent, free and fair elections with nothing to hide. All members of the EU, Sadc, AU and the US have been invited. Even though the US has maintained a hardline stance against Harare, Zimbabwe has said it is committed to re-engaging Washington to establish a sustainable and mutually beneficial future relationship. President Mnangagwa met US Senators behind the proposed amendments to the Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Act (the US sanctions Act) at the weekend in Harare where he reiterated that his administration welcomed constructive criticism. We hope the meeting and the Senators’ visit to Zimbabwe will clear certain misconceptions they had about the country and assist them to come up with an informed policy regarding their country’s relations with Harare. The US can take a leaf from the EU which has acknowledged the immense progress Zimbabwe has achieved under President Mnangagwa and subsequently accelerated its re-engagement process. Speaking in Harare after meeting President Mnangagwa at his Munhumutapa offices on Monday, EU International Development Commissioner, Mr Neven Mimica, the first high ranking EU official to visit the country since 2009, said the visit demonstrates the bloc’s commitment to be a reliable partner of Zimbabwe in the political and democratic transition. “This is a process that the EU would like to engage on, to support and to accompany Zimbabwe’s authorities. We discussed it with the President and we agreed that this process should start first with fair and free elections in order to legitimise the whole reform processes in front of Zimbabwe,’ said Mr Mimica. “We look positively to the period in front of us and we would like to support Zimbabwe along the lines of the reforms that would actually open space for a new Zimbabwe, democratic and prosperous Zimbabwe in the future.” We applaud the EU for its sincerity in re-engaging Zimbabwe and hope that the processes that have been set in motion will ultimately result in the full restoration of bilateral relations and a return to normalcy. Zimbabwe is on a path to shed its pariah status and take its rightful place in the community of nations and powerful nations in the EU bloc and the US will play a crucial part in this endeavour.