   Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent ZIMDANCEHALL superstar, Seh Calaz , will be the headline act at Miss Nust as preparations for the modelling show gather steam. Seventeen beauties from the National University of Science and Technology (Nust) will vie for the crown at the tertiary institution’s Ceremonial Hall on Saturday. Boss Yala, as Seh Calaz is affectionately known, will be joined by Bulawayo’s top performers DJs Mzoe, Nospa, Teflon, TMK, IMG, Bongani, Sizzle, Kayceejay, Hollan, rapper Cliff Jeans and BK the Rep. Zanele Ncube, Miss Nust organiser, said Seh Calaz was popular with students hence why they had invited him to come and perform. “Seh Calaz was selected by the majority of students from Nust. We’re also trying to have a variety of artistes perform. At the beginning of the semester we had Winky D and now we’re hosting Seh Calaz,” said Ncube. Taking to the ramp on Saturday will be students Petronella Mnkandla, Mitchelle Mpasi, Rumbidzayi Sumbereru, Michelle Chikwengo, Aulynda Mudzingwa, Fortunate Mlilwana, Maria Sibanda, Noxolo Sibanda, Thembelihle, Patience Chigwaza, Lisa Zhou, Medeline Madzungu, Samantha Moyo, Hazel Ndlovu, Nomaqhwa Sengwayo and Blessing Nyawo. The judging panel will comprise former Miss Tourism Zimbabwe Samantha Tshuma, Amanda Mtangadura and Gilmore Tee. Preparations, Ncube said, were going well with the aspiring models ready to strut their stuff on the ramp. “Everything is going according to plan. We’re just perfecting a few things with the models going through their routines. They’re being prepared by coaches from Open Eye Studio who’re helping them walk the ramp.” Outgoing Miss Nust, Journalism student, Terai Moyo, will hand over the crown to her successor. All eyes will certainly be on Miss Nust, one of the few notable pageants that the city hosts, especially considering that this pageant often produces quality models who go on to make names for themselves in the modelling industry. Models such as Ashley Morgen – a product of Nust – have gone on to win national pageants effortlessly as they are beauties with brains – a quality adored by most pageants.