 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Premier Soccer League is considering introducing e-tickets for its matches as a way of plugging leakages at all stadia. Faced with a number of people gaining free entry to league games thereby prejudicing clubs of the much needed revenue, the PSL has introduced bouncers to man entry points as a stop-gap measure. The result, coupled with good football exhibited by Highlanders, has seen an increase in revenue but still some fans find their way into the stadium for free. Last Sunday, Chicken Inn registered a new club record after 10 477 people paid to watch their game against Highlanders, with club secretary Tawengwa Hara heaping praises on the bouncers for minimising leakages. “It’s now better with these bouncers because clubs are no longer directly involved in controlling gates. Leakages should be controlled by the PSL. You saw at our match, the club officials and city council officers were just there watching, while the bouncers controlled things and it worked. It will be good if the league pursues e-ticketing, as that will not only improve access to stadiums on match day but will stop the free entry,” said Hara. The bouncers have brought order especially at gates reserved for accredited individuals where in the past there was chaos. PSL spokesperson Kudzai Bare said they are satisfied with the “security liaison” and they hope to have them spread across the country. Presently, the bouncers are in Harare and Bulawayo. Bare said the PSL is still pursuing the issue of introducing e-ticketing and delays were as a result of local authorities that are yet to respond. “It is the PSL’s long-term plan to introduce e-ticketing system for all our games. The tickets will be sold at local retail outlets, with verification and validation of tickets with security features done online through scanners. We’ve written to local authorities seeking improvements at their facilities,” said Bare. “The major drawback is that stadia infrastructure is not equipped with high speed wireless connectivity. One will argue and say it’s easy to install internet at a stadium, but the challenge is that clubs don’t own the facilities and the stadium is just provided for games.” she said. In the meantime, Bare said the security liaison officers that have been deployed at some facilities are doing a good job in stopping free entry. @ZililoR