Zifa Southern Region board member Tumediso Mokoena-Ndlovu (left) addresses guests at the unveiling ceremony of Mainline FC in Plumtree yesterday Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter NEWLY promoted Zifa Southern Region Division One Soccer League side, Mainline FC, held a colourful unveiling ceremony at Plumtree’s TMB Hall yesterday, giving club owners hope that the community will support their ambitious project. Former Home Affairs Deputy Minister, Obedingwa Mguni who is also the Member of Parliament for Mangwe, members of the Zifa Southern Region executive committee Musa Mandaza, Bryton Malandule and Tumediso Mokoena-Ndlovu, Zifa Bulawayo Province chairman Francis Ntutha and retired referee Thabani Mnkantjo were among the guests. Councillors from Plumtree Town Council were also in attendance. “We’re happy with the support shown to us by the people of Plumtree. It is such support which gives us the will to keep supporting sport and ensure that our talented youngsters can shape and improve their football talents. With such support, from the business community and the public, I’m sure that we can do well. We are coming in to the First Division with the aim of winning promotion into the Premiership. We’re not coming to fulfil matches but to compete,” said Mkhulunyelwa Nkomo, Mainline FC co-director. Zifa Southern Region chairman, Musa Mandaza, challenged Mainline FC to draw inspiration from Tsholotsho FC who had a two-year flirtation with the topflight before being relegated at the end of last season. He commended Nkomo and Mainline FC co-sponsor Jonathan Ndlovu, a South Africa-based businessman with interests in the construction industry and real estate for complementing Zifa’s efforts of spreading competitive football across the country. “The Mainline FC project falls within Zifa’s concept of spreading football to all corners of the country. It is good to see the community of Plumtree coming together to support their own team. Tsholotsho FC did it and Mainline FC can draw inspiration from them. It is our hope that one day we will have a side from Plumtree playing in the topflight. Beitbridge is one border town that has had three Premiership sides in the last decade and we hope Mainline FC can bring topflight action to this border town,” said Mandaza. The Beitbridge sides to have played in the Premiership in the last 10 years are Underhill, Tripple B and Border Strikers. Mainline FC’s Ndlovu believes the club is capable of bringing topflight football to Plumtree. “After the 2016 edition of the Jonah Football tourney won by Kombani at Nyabane in Bulilima held on Christmas Day of that year, I decided to look for a partner based here in Plumtree so that we take the issue of setting a club seriously. It’s a pity that despite Plumtree having abundant talent, it doesn’t have a football team competing in the First Division. Some of the talented boys from Plumtree have given up on playing competitive football by either choosing to play social soccer or going outside the country,” said Ndlovu. “What this project (Mainline FC) seeks to achieve is to give promising youngsters an opportunity to play in the First Division and even go on to play in the Premiership. “Through this team, we will be playing our part in talent development and taking the boys off the streets. We are appealing to Bulilima and Mangwe communities to support us in whatever way so that the team succeeds. We also hope the council will improve the sporting facilities here in Plumtree  so that they meet Zifa standards,” Ndlovu said. Mainline are hoping to play their First Division matches at Dingumuzi Stadium in Plumtree. @ZililoR