Councillor Martin Moyo MESSAGE FROM HIS WORSHIP THE MAYOR, COUNCILLOR MARTIN MOYO TO WELCOME EXHIBITORS AND VISITORS TO THE 2018 ZIMBABWE INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR. I welcome with pride and joy the exhibitors and visitors to the 2018 Zimbabwe International Trade Fair and to the City of Bulawayo. On behalf of the City of Kings and its residents, may I wish you a warm stay in our beautiful city. The national exhibition this year whose theme is “Sustainable Industrial Development. Inclusive. Competitive. Collaborative”, enhances our efforts as Bulawayo and Zimbabwe to revive and sustain our industries in a mutually competitive and multi-cultural environment. To this end, we as Bulawayo strive to provide business opportunities to all potential investors and stakeholders. As a local authority and a service provider, the City of Bulawayo is committed to the revival of the economy and city infrastructure and utilities. The City recognises the various efforts by stakeholders to revive industries in the city. Various initiatives are underway to create and enable sustainable growth through multi-lateral linkages and partnerships for the rehabilitation of our road network, infrastructure, water and sanitation. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is embarking on an economic revival. “Zimbabwe is open for Business” also means that Bulawayo is open for business. The city has sectors and areas which present opportunities for investors. We are employing various efforts to restore investor confidence in our city. As a country and a city we implore investors to grasp this opportunity to invest in Zimbabwe and Bulawayo. The City of Bulawayo is proud to have partaken in the nationwide Rapid Results Approach Initiative and to have also launched its own Initiative on January 8. We are proud to have achieved many goals in a short space of time. The Initiative allowed Council to achieve crucial developments in water, sanitation, housing and roads. The 100 days were an opportunity for stakeholders to show their trust and confidence in Bulawayo. The city’s administrative processes are very friendly and allow ease of doing business. During this trade showcase, the City of Bulawayo anticipates to fully engage and collaborate with potential investors and partners for the improvement and growth of Bulawayo. I extend an invitation to local industry and commerce to seize this opportunity to forge partnerships with visitors, businesses and exhibitors who are showcasing at the Trade Fair. The City of Bulawayo is proud of its rich historic and cultural heritage. It has a lot to offer in the tourism sector. It is a hub of nature and nearby national parks offer tourist attractions which provide an amazing wildlife and tourism experience. We recognise the importance of collaboration in our day to day running. It is because of this recognition that our exhibition theme is “City of Bulawayo — Strength through Collaboration and Inclusivity.” We strive to provide an enabling environment for business recognising key partnerships to keeping the City of Bulawayo alive. Collaborative growth requires the inclusion of all stakeholders. The presence of Ethekwini Municipality, which is our sister city, is a collaboration that has allowed Bulawayo to enhance local governance and service delivery through mentoring, coaching and collaboration. The Ethekwini delegation is warmly welcomed to Bulawayo together with other regional and international guests. May I also take this opportunity to invite you to visit our City of Bulawayo stand at the Trade Fair so as to get an insight of the investment opportunities that the City has to offer and our collaborative and inclusive solutions towards the growth of an economically vibrant city. On behalf of the residents of Bulawayo, Siyalamukela (We welcome you). I wish you a pleasant and memorable stay in the City Of Kings. Councillor M. K. Moyo MAYOR