Rutendo Makore Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter Mighty Warriors’ coach Sithethelelwe ‘Kwinji 15’ Sibanda has named her  18  players to take on  Namibia in the first leg of an Africa Women Cup of Nations first round qualifier on April 5. The squad is dominated by experienced players who have been playing together for a long time and sees the return of the experienced trio of Emmaculate Msipa, Mavis Chirandu and Felistas Muzongondi. The trio has been out of national team duties  due to work commitments. Hard running and cheeky striker, Rutendo Makore, was expected to undergo a fitness test yesterday to see if she could be part of  the travelling part. The Spain-based Makore  suffered an ankle injury which saw her missing Sporting Club Huelva’s Liga Feminina victory on Sunday. Maudy Mafuruse returns for contention to lead the line following her six-month trial stint in Iceland in 2017. She will be competing for a place upfront with Susan Nyama, Vimbai Mharadzi and Erina Jere. At the back, the only fairly new name is Edline Mutumbami, among mainstays Nobuhle Majika, Sheila Makoto, Nobukhosi Ncube and Lynett Mutokuto. The return leg at home will be played at Rufaro Stadium on April 8. The winner of the two-legged qualifier will meet either Zambia or Tanzania in the second and final round of qualifiers for the final tournament to be played in Ghana in 2018 Squad Goalkeepers: Chido Dzingirai (Correctional Queens), Manyara Mandara (Mwenezana Queens) Defenders: Nobuhle Majika (Inline Academy), Nobukhosi Ncube (New Orleans Queens), Sheila Makoto (Blue Swallows Queens), Lynett Mutokuto (Black Rhinos Queens), Edline Mutumbami (Blue Swallows Queens), Midfielders: Talent Mandaza © (Black Rhinos Queens), Daisy Kaitano (Black Rhinos Queens), Marjory Nyaumwe (Correctional Queens), Emmaculate Msipa (Black Rhinos Queens), Mavis Chirandu (Black Rhinos Queens). Felistas Muzongondi (Black Rhinos Queens), Berita Kabwe (Correctional Queens) Strikers: Maudy Mafuruse (Faith Drive Queens), Susan Nyama (Herentals Queens), Erina Jeke (Correctional Queens), Vimbai Mharadzi (Blue Swallows Queens).