 Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter THE High Court has dismissed an application for bail pending trial by a teacher who allegedly strangled his pregnant girlfriend with her head scarf and set her body ablaze at a lodge in Bulawayo’s Kumalo suburb. Tonderai Marabwa (33), a teacher at Pakame High School in Shurugwi, is facing a murder charge in connection with the death of Fortunate Sindi Sithole. He has been remanded in custody pending trial at the High Court on July 24. Marabwa allegedly killed his girlfriend after a dispute over her pregnancy. In papers before the Bulawayo High Court, Marabwa is the applicant while the State was cited as the respondent. Marabwa through his lawyers Tanaka Law Chambers argued that in the interests of justice he would not abscond if granted bail pending trial. “The applicant avers that the interests of justice will not be compromised if he is granted bail,” said Marabwa’s lawyers. Marabwa said there was no evidence linking him to the alleged murder of his girlfriend, arguing that there was a possibility that she could have committed suicide. Justice Nicholas Mathonsi said the premise on which the application has been made was not well grounded.  “It is trite that where the evidence against an accused person is very strong, the likelihood of abscondment is high. In my view, there are no new circumstances placed before this court to indicate that exceptional circumstances exist that are compelling for the release of applicant on bail,” he said. “In the result, the application for bail pending trial is hereby dismissed,” ruled the judge. According to State papers, on December 10 last year, Marabwa phoned Sithole and they agreed to meet in Bulawayo in the afternoon. He then travelled from Lalapanzi to Bulawayo and met with Sithole who was coming from Mahatshula at around 5PM. “They resolved to put up at a local lodge in Kumalo where they had sex. At around 4AM the two had a misunderstanding over the issue of the now deceased’s pregnancy with Sithole demanding to be taken to Marabwa’s family for introductions,” he said. Marabwa refused since he had another girlfriend who is also pregnant. The accused person said he wanted to marry the other girlfriend and had left her at his place of residence. While at the lodge Sithole insisted that she was going to follow the accused to his place of residence and force him to introduce her to his family. Marabwa, fearing that the other girlfriend would discover the relationship, strangled Sithole using her head scarf. He allegedly placed a mattress on top of the deceased and set it alight before locking the door of the room in an effort to conceal the murder. He then disappeared into the night. The murder was discovered by lodge workers who reported the matter to the police leading to Marabwa’s arrest. A post-mortem was carried out on deceased’s remains and cause of death was ascertained as asphyxia and strangulation.—@mashnets