Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter MANGWE villagers got a shot in the arm yesterday when Environment, Water and Climate Minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri launched development projects that will result in the community accessing clean water. As part of the projects, the Minister availed 20 000 fingerlings courtesy of ZimParks to be deposited into Ingwizi Dam which is the main water source for the villagers. She urged villagers to take care of the boreholes which were drilled to help them water an orchard as means of complementing Government’s effort to end their perennial water problem. Speaking at Ingwizi in Plumtree yesterday, Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri commended the community for working hard to preserve the environment. She was accompanied by Ambassador Simon Khaya Moyo, the Minister of Energy and Power Development. “The Zimbabwe National Water Authority has drilled and equipped a borehole for irrigating a fruit and gum tree nursery which we are also launching today. As I travelled to this place I noticed that most homesteads are along the road hence I will ensure that we install water pipes so you have easy access to water,” said Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri. “My colleague Minister Moyo was persistent in ensuring that as Cabinet we address your water problems and I’m glad because we are going to drill an additional six boreholes for the chiefs.” She said the Forestry Commission has availed 156 fruit trees and a woodlot of 500 eucalyptus trees for the community to establish orchards even in schools. “This community project will not be complete without the participation of ZimParks who have chipped in by seeding 20 000 fingerlings into the dam. All these projects will be integrated into supporting the already existing sustainable mining project established with the help of EMA who donated a compressor, a hammer mill, a generator and water articulation systems,” she said. According to Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri, the district was the first to benefit from the Ministry’s drive to avail more than 200 boreholes to affected communities. “As President Mnangagwa always says, we are open for business as a country hence I urge you all to receive these projects with a business mind. We cannot go to anyone for jobs because with the fish, mine and orchard.  I know you can create employment and make a living out of these projects,” added the Minister.