Memory Mucherahowa Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter UNITED Kingdom-based Dynamos legends Chamu Musanhu and Memory Mucherahowa have raised the red flag on the embarrassing start to the season by the Harare giants and called for an immediate change of leadership in the club’s board and executive. The Harare giants have been on a free fall this season that has seen them failing to win a single match in the opening seven games of the Castle Lager Premiership and are joint anchors of the league table with ZPC Kariba on three points. This is a massive 16 points behind log leaders Ngezi Platinum Stars, who are coached by their own son Tonderai Ndiraya. The three points from a possible 21 represents the worst start for DeMbare in a league campaign in the Premiership and the Glamour Boys are only separated from bottom club ZPC Kariba due to a superior goal difference. Dynamos have just scored four times in seven matches; three of which were against Shabanie Mine in a 3-3 draw. Speaking to Chronicle Sport from their base in the United Kingdom on Monday evening, the two Dynamos legends did not mince their words, with Musanhu borrowing the popular phrase of “Operation Restore Legacy”, while Mucherahowa said DeMbare risked relegation if nothing was done. “Things are falling apart, we need ‘Operation Restore Legacy’,” said Musanhu. Mucherahohwa, one of the finest midfielders to emerge from the Glamour Boys, said greed and hunger for power were the main reasons their childhood club was in such a mess. “There is a big problem at Dynamos right now. Things are not looking good and people shouldn’t just fold hands. Dynamos need to be run like a professional team. The main thing for now is to change the whole structure at the top. Dynamos are moving backwards just because of a few individuals, who either think they can turn things around or are greedy and using this institution as their private business. Things need to change right away like yesterday,” said Mucherahowa. He said it was becoming increasingly clear that unless some action is taken, relegation was only a matter of time, adding that the technical team was caught up in an unfortunate scenario, while the real culprits are hiding in their offices. “It’s not like there are no other people who can run that club. We know some people are interested, but they are always being blocked by these people at the top. I do receive a lot of calls from people that want to help Dynamos right now, but I know it’s a waste of time. It has got more to do with the board and executive. “I don’t know how good (Lloyd) Mutasa is, but he is the same man, who nearly got it (the league) last season. But when this season starts, Dynamos doesn’t have even a single ball. Where did the money from NetOne go? That team has got potential and let other people run it,” Mucherahowa said. The Glamour Boys take on fellow strugglers Bulawayo City at Rufaro Stadium on Sunday hoping to register their first win of the season and start moving away from the bottom end of the league table.