Mr Malusi Gigaba Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent SOUTH Africa’s Minister of Home Affairs Malusi Gigaba has approached the Government to discuss immigration issues affecting both countries. Home Affairs and Culture Minister Dr Obert Mpofu confirmed being contacted by his South African counterpart for a meeting that is also expected to touch on issues relating to Zimbabweans-based in South Africa. He said due to the Easter Holidays, he has not managed to engage Minister Gigaba, but would do so in due course. “I was contacted by South Africa’s Home Affairs Minister Gigaba just a few days ago. But because of the holidays I have not managed to talk to him. But I will call him when I get back to the office,” said Dr Mpofu. “I’m sure he would want us to talk about Zimbabweans that are in South Africa and the attitude of some of the immigration officers at the border posts especially in Beitbridge where Zimbabweans have been subjected to unfair treatment by the South Africans.” The imminent meeting between the two Ministers follows complaints over South Africa’s immigration officials who are under the spotlight for allegedly ill-treating Zimbabwean travellers. Last month, an immigration officer and her three supervisors were suspended after a video of her scrolling her phone while serving Zimbabweans sparked outrage after it was widely circulated on social media platforms. The alleged harassment of travellers prompted Minister Gigaba to visit the South African side of the Beitbridge Border Post where he uncovered a serious security breach by his immigration officials. The security breach could have led to some individuals entering and exiting the neighbouring country without being accounted for. Dr Mpofu said the country will also assess whether travellers are not being harassed at the entry and exit point. “We also want to check on our side if travellers are not subjected to harassment and certain influences which impede free movement of people,” he said. @nqotshili