Minister Raymond Kazembe Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Sports and Recreation Commission will this week conduct a two-day Zimbabwe National Paralympic and Youth Games general assembly in Gweru that will also see delegates inspecting competition and accommodation venues. The assembly will be officially opened by Sports, Arts and Culture Minister Raymond Kazembe on Friday. It will receive and consider the Games’ Dispute resolution and Disciplinary procedures as well as determine the number of sport codes for the August jamboree. SRC communications manager Tirivashe Nheweyembwa said the assembly comes at a time when the Games have been expanded and the Commission’s hope will be that a number of landmark decisions will be made to ameliorate the challenges that have occurred in previous versions of the Games. “Our wish is to have financially viable and logistically seamless Games that are capable of attracting corporate partnership from all angles and such a scenario can only happen if we march and step at the same pace with the participating provinces as well as the local organising committee,” said Nheweyembwa. He said all key drivers of the Games have to be proactive and this week’s gathering will be used to check if the environment provides for such situations. “Our anticipation is that far reaching measures will be taken so that the Games become an envy of many in the region and beyond, especially since we are going to use this year’s Games to gauge the state of readiness for the nation to participate in the African Union Sports Council Region Five Under-20 Youth Games set for Botswana in December this year. It is clear therefore that it’s business unusual this time around,” he said. He said the assembly has to agree on a reasonable participation fees, while the Local organising committee is expected to present a strong marketing plan for the Games. “As stated earlier, we do not expect similar problems like we have been witnessing in past versions of the Games to occur so we indeed hope that areas like catering and accommodation ought to be on point. While we appreciate that other fundraising efforts are being undertaken, it is our hope that the Games should not be burdensome to the Loc and this is only achievable if the participating provinces pay affordable but reasonable participation fees.” Midlands Provincial Affairs Minister Owen Ncube, provincial general managers, sport competition directors as well as dignitaries from various government departments are expected to attend the assembly.