 Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter LEGENDARY former Highlanders’ hit man Zenzo Moyo will be the guest of honour at the Matabeleland South Social Darts Tshisa Nyama tournament at Stanmore business centre on Saturday. Gwanda North MP Madodana Sibanda and Matabeleland South sports officer Frank Baloyi will also be in attendance. According to Matabeleland South Darts Association provincial secretary Bekezela Maduma Fuzwayo, 20 teams have confirmed participation, with 12 hailing from the host province. Archers, Railstars, Esipotini, Zimbabwe School of Mines, Wisewaters and Parkview from Bulawayo as well as ZRP Buchwa are the other teams competing in the tournament. “From the host province we will have Maphisa, ZNA Mbalabala, Prisons Gwanda, Blanket Mine, Gwanda and District Club, Blanket A, Club Harvest, Ministry of Construction, Vumbachikwe Mine, Colleen Bawn, Makwe and Big Josh – JMN Poly, while Plumtree Darts Club is on standby,” said Fuzwayo. Fuzwayo said teams will be put into five groups of four and as a way of protecting teams from the host province and to help stoke interest in the sport from the locals, the host teams will be put into three groups and the top two sides from each group will advance to the quarter-finals. “The two qualifiers from outside the province will meet in the quarter-finals, while the hosts will have six. All games will be a 501 straight singles of six players each played in a maximum of 90 minutes and the first team to reach 19 wins the game,” said Fuzwayo. In the group stages, three points will be awarded for a straight win, while a point will be given for a tie, with the tie break winner getting an extra point. If a match is timed out, the leading team at that moment will get the three points. In an effort to fight the stigma associated with drunkenness during darts games, no player will be allowed to consume any alcoholic beverages or any food during the course of the match. “Drunkenness or disorderly behaviour will not be tolerated and any player suspected to be such will be immediately excused from taking further part in the tournament and may be removed outright from the venue,” he warned. The winners will get a cow, while the runners up will walk away with a live goat and $50. The third-placed side will get $25 and a live goat, while the fourth place finisher will walk away with a live goat only. The Losing quarter-finalists will get $25 and those that bow out in the group stages will receive $20. A $10 token will be given for most 180s, the same prize for a highest close.