Lovemore  Zigara in Gweru ZPC Munyati have vowed to dismantle MSU and put their campaign back on track when the two sides meet at Munyati in the Zimbabwe General Medical Aid Fund Central Region Soccer League (ZGMAF-CSL) this afternoon. The power generators, who are among the championship favourites, had a false start to their campaign when they went down 2–3 to league newboys FC Lesaffre. Isaac Nyabvure, the ZPC Munyati mentor said last weekend’s result is now water under the bridge and they would want to get a result today. “We need to win at all costs after a false start last weekend. MSU is a good side and so are we and what is needed is to stay focused so we can secure a positive result to kick-start our campaign,” he said. “I am happy that I will be having a full strength squad after some of our players failed to make it into the team as their licences had not yet been processed last time around. All is now in order and what is left now is for the boys to come to the party,” added Nyabvure. Unlike their adversaries this afternoon, MSU had a flying start to their campaign after dispatching seasoned campaigners Ivan Hoe 1 – 0 on the opening day of the season at Mkoba Stadium. The varsity side gaffer, Joseph Michael, said his side will take each game as it comes. “It’s going to be a tough match and the game against Ivan Hoe is in the past now and our focus is now on ZPC Munyati. They are a good team but we have prepared for them and we hope to get a result there,” he said. Another mouth-watering clash is in the offing at Mkoba Stadium tomorrow when league debutant Sheasham take on last year’s runners up Tongogara. Sheasham who on paper are the strongest team in the league will have to content with a Tongogara outfit whose biggest strength is continuity having retained most of its players from last season. Fixtures Today: Ivan Hoe vs Black Eagles (Amaveni), ZPC Munyati vs MSU (Munyati), Vumbachikwe vs FC Lesaffre (Vumbachikwe), Whawha vs FC Platinum U19 (Whawha), TelOne vs Blanket Mine (Wilson Fields) Tomorrow: Sheasham vs Tongogara (Mkoba) Chrome Stars on a bye