Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter MOSI Rovers, Talen Vision and Main Line collected maximum points on the opening weekend of the Zifa Southern Region Division One League season. Victoria Falls-based Mosi Rovers gave newcomers Toronto a baptism of fire on their visit to the resort town, dismissing the new boys 3-1. Ndabazabo Ndlovu, Mediator Mabhena and Definite Tsikwa were on target for Mosi Rovers, while the Toronto, who are based in the Bulawayo suburb of Pumula East, scored their consolation from the boot of Mgcini Moyo. By virtue of scoring more goals, Mosi Rovers top the table followed by pre-season championship favourites Talen Vision, who needed two second half goals from Nigerian forward Osie Miniru, as they dispatched a stubborn Zim Leopards side 2-0. Newly promoted Plumtree-based side Main Line are third on the league table following their 1-0 away to Moto Moto. While Talen Vision got off to a flyer, former Premiership sides Hwange and Tsholotsho FC, who were relegated from the topflight at the end of the 2017 season, failed to collect maximum points after firing blanks in their respective games. Hwange FC shared the spoils with town rivals ZPC Hwange, while Tsholotsho also drew 0-0 with visiting Casmyn at Luveve Stadium. Meanwhile, all Southern Region Division One sides will be in action tomorrow, with Makomo, who were inactive as Zifa Southern Region awaits Chiwororo and NRZ Leopards’ confirmation of participation, hosting Talen Vision. The Makomo and Talen Vision game is the pick of Week Two, as both sides made public their ambitions of winning promotion to the topflight. The two sides will test each other’s pedigree after beefing up their squads and technical stuff during the off-season. Hwange will be at home to Mosi Rovers, who go into the encounter bubbling with confidence after winning their opening game, while ZPC Hwange travel to Bulawayo to face wounded Zim Leopards. Main Line are on a bye. Zifa Southern Region administrator Augustine Ndlovu said they are hoping to conclude the Chiwororo/NRZ Leopards matter soon. “The postponed matches will be played in due course and we hope to conclude the matter soon. The board (Zifa Southern Region board) is seized with the matter,” said Ndlovu. Week 1 results Saturday: Talen Vision 2-0 Zim Leopards, Tsholotsho 0-0 Casmyn, ZRP Bulawayo v CIWU (postponed), Moto Moto 0-1 Main Line, ZPC Hwange 0-0 Hwange, Mosi Rovers 3-1 Toronto, Bosso 90 1-1 Indlovu Iyanyathela, NRZ Leopards/Chiwororo v Makomo (postponed) Week Two Fixtures Tomorrow: Main Line v NRZ Leopards/Chiwororo (postponed), Zim Leopards v ZPC Hwange (Raylton), Hwange v Mosi Rovers (Hwange), Casmyn v Bosso 90 (Turk Mine), CIWU v Moto Moto (Luveve), Makomo v Talen Vision (Hwange), Indlovu Iyanyathela v ZRP Bulawayo Province (Mzilikazi Barracks), Toronto v Tsholotsho (Raylton) @ZililoR