Minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri Richard Muponde, Plumtree Correspondent ZIMBABWE’s oranges are a delicacy to the Chinese market and schools nationwide have been called upon to establish vibrant orchards for export purposes and own consumption. Environment, Water and Climate Minister, Oppah Muchinguri–Kashiri said this last Thursday at a ground breaking ceremony for a 200 orange-tree project at Bhulu High School in Mphoengs, Mangwe District. The trees were donated by the Forestry Commission, working together with the Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority (Zimparks) and the Zimbabwe National Water Authority (Zinwa). The water authority sunk a borehole to support the school project. The facility will also benefit the surrounding community. In her address before planting her fruit tree, Minister Muchinguri-Kashiri said the country’s oranges were in high demand in China and challenged Zimbabweans to tap into that market. “Zimbabwean oranges are in high demand in China. They say they are fresh and sweet. The Chinese want our oranges as they say they are good for them. As we launch this orchard at Bhulu High School, I want to urge schools nationwide to use the land they have to grow orchards particularly oranges to satisfy this market,” she said. “This will help them build capacity to pay school fees for disadvantaged pupils and stop relying on Government funding.” Minister Muchinguri-Kashiri christened her orange tree, “Chamu”. As if it was a newborn baby, she blessed it to bear many fruits and feed the nation. “Chamu I am leaving you here to bear fruits. This is business. I want you to produce to the extent that you don’t only feed the people of this area alone but the whole country. “You should produce Mangwe Crush this time, not (Mazowe Crush),” said Muchinguri-Kashiri jokingly referring to the former First Lady Mrs Grace Mugabe’s “Mazowe Crush”. Mangwe Senator and Acting Minister of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services, Ambassador Simon Khaya Moyo, who also graced the occasion, told the gathering that China’s President Mr Xi Jingping told President Emmerson Mnangagwa during his State visit to China that the country’s oranges were the best in the world. “He told the President (ED) that he wants our oranges in China as they were the best in the world. He said Zimbabwe should produce a lot of oranges to satisfy the huge Chinese market,” said Minister Khaya Moyo. He also christened his orange tree, Unity. @richardmuponde