Philemon Machana Grace Chingoma, Harare Bureau FOLLOWING the release of funds for last year’s Cosafa’s tournaments into the regional body coffers this week, Zifa have committed to first honouring their financial obligations to the Mighty Warriors whom they owe a substantial amount of money. The Mighty Warriors, who finished as runners-up to Cosafa champions, South Africa, at Barbourfields last September were this week awarded their prize money of R250 000 by the tournament sponsors, Kwese. The money was deposited into the Cosafa account in Johannesburg this week and Zifa have since availed their account details to Cosafa. Although Zifa will be given $750 000, including the $500 000 prize money for the Warriors who lifted the Cosafa Castle Cup in South Africa last July, the Association will not get that full chunk after they were advanced some money last year by Cosafa so they could stage the women’s edition in Bulawayo. But, crucially for Zifa, the Mighty Warriors prizemoney will help the mother body offset what they owe the women’s national team players. Yesterday, the Zifa board member in charge of finance, Philemon Machana, shed some light regarding the outstanding Mighty Warriors’ Cosafa money. “We haven’t sat down to deliberate on the figures but what I know is we owe them (Mighty Warriors some appearances fees as well as winning bonuses for Cosafa matches). We have contracts with them, also on their part they know what they are exactly owed. “We are now going to honour those obligations first. The money we will get should be about $20 000 or $25 000 dollars (equivalent to 250 000 rand), so if we owe them, say $30 000 for the Cosafa tournament, then we will pay everything and we remain with a minus balance. “If their total amount, is $20 000, then we will pay them first and whatever remains will go into the association coffers. Unfortunately, I don’t have the figures at hand,” he said. Machana said they found themselves with financial challenges regarding the Bulawayo tournament after government failed the meet the budget. “Government promised us the money for Cosafa women’s tournament, they gave us the guarantee and we gave them the full budget but they did not meet the commitments. “Cosafa then advanced us some money so that the tournament could be staged, so they have since garnished it from the Warriors’ prize money to offset what they advanced us towards the staging of the women’s Cosafa tournament. “So, for winning the Cosafa Castle Cup, we are not really going to pocket something,” he said. Zimbabwe, together with other selected associations, have been granted a travel assist of $175 00 per year, which they can use for the national teams to travel and stage matches, by Fifa. This facility is for selected global national teams which Fifa feel, because of flight connectivity or the state of economies in those nations, might find it difficult to travel for matches. Since 2016, Zifa have not been able to draw from that travel assistance but they have since put their house in order with audited books and are expecting to get their reimbursement which amounts to $350 000 for the past two years. They are set to get a further $175 000 for this year which will involve the matches which will be played by both the Warriors and the Mighty Warriors. It is part of the $350 000 that Zifa are hoping to use to clear other Mighty Warriors and Warriors’ outstanding dues. Machana said contrary to public belief that Zifa prioritise the Warriors over the Mighty Warriors, they were yet to pay Sunday Chidzambwa and his troops for Four-Nations tournament which took place in Zambia last month. “There is money coming but it is not yet in our account. From the meagre resources we had, we used them to host the Mighty Warriors match against Namibia taking care of other expenses such as referees’ air fares, the match commissioner’s  travel expenses as well as his allowance as stipulated by Caf. “We started with these expenses and then signed contracts with players as we know we will honour them. “We owe the Warriors money for the Zambia and Lesotho tournaments but we are waiting for the money which will come from our source. “We have not been able to pay the Warriors in their past games but we are grateful to Sunday Chidzambwa and the whole team. “Time and again we owe players but they understand that we will eventually clear that and this is why they fulfil matches and this is one of the reasons why we suspected a third hand was at play during the Mighty Warriors stand-off,” said Machana.