 Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A TOTAL OF 48 people were killed in road traffic accidents during the Easter Holidays this year compared to 25 who died last year during the same period. National police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba said most of the accidents could have been avoided as they were due to human error. “The major causes of these fatal road traffic accidents were speeding, inattention, misjudgement, overtaking errors and failure to observe road rules and regulations. There is a need for concerted efforts by all stakeholders to imbue a culture of good driving conduct in all drivers. Car owners should ensure that unlicensed drivers do not and should not be permitted to drive on our roads,” she said. “We urge drivers to travel at safe speeds, observe road rules and regulations, and consider the condition of the road and safety of other road users. Pedestrians are also being urged to be observant when crossing any road and should check either side of the road to ensure it is safe to cross before doing so. Together let us tame this traffic jungle.” Snr Asst Comm Charamba said on Monday, a total of six deaths were recorded from five accidents that occurred across the country. “In Masvingo Province, a speeding motorist knocked down three members of the same family as they tried to cross the road, killing two people on the spot and injuring one who is now hospitalised in a critical condition. A speeding South African registered bus also knocked down and killed a pedestrian at the 44KM peg along the Masvingo-Beitbridge road. Another pedestrian was run over by a Volvo Truck Horse near Gwanzura Stadium, Harare and died on the spot,” she said. The Traffic Safety Council of Zimbabwe has been encouraging motorists to embark on daytime travel saying it’s is safer than night driving. MPs have previously said 85 percent of accidents in the country were blamed on human error. The MPs who are members of the transport committee listed 12 other causes of accidents in the country that include bad state of roads, speeding, drunken driving, fatigue, use of cell phones when driving and going through red robots. The use of second hand tyres, stationary and defective vehicles as well as stray animals on the roads, inadequate road signage and markings as well as lack of traffic enforcement were also cited. The lawmakers’ report recommended that the government should increase fines charged for traffic offences so that they are deterrent. The authorities were also urged to introduce traffic courts where routine offenders are charged and licences are endorsed or cancelled. — @winnie_masara