Minister Prisca Mupfumira Harare Bureau Government’s enshrinement programme is set to take heritage tourism to greater heights following the allocation of resources from Treasury. Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Prisca Mupfumira made the announcement in a telephone interview from Dubai where she is attending the Arabian Travel Market. “We received news of the exciting development that Government had approved the budget submitted by my Ministry for the enshrinement programme,” she said. “I had put this long overdue project as part of my 100 days programme and my team and I are elated by the allocation of resources to enable us to embark on this project. “I am grateful to the leadership for allowing me to champion this important cause, and to my colleague, the Minister of Home Affairs, Honourable Obert Mpofu and other colleagues in Cabinet, as well as in the party, for all their support.” Minister Mupfumira said the country had many liberation war sites that needed to be memorialised as it packaged its own history. She said for the 100 days programme, her Ministry had prioritised five sites namely; the Chinhoyi Battle Sites and the Seven Heroes’ burial site (Chinhoyi), Trabablas Trail (Masvingo), Pupu Shangani (Matabeleland North), Old Bulawayo Site (Bulawayo) and Tangwena Village (Manicaland). Minister Mupfumira said following the allocation of the resources, work was set to commence on the development of the sites. “Already, work has started at the Chinhoyi Battle Site where the executing agency, National Museums and Monuments of Zimbabwe (NMMZ) have commenced site mobilisation,” she said. “The Minister (Mupfumira) will soon be availing to the action the grand plan for the site that will change the face of tourism in Chinhoyi in particular and Mashonaland West in general.” Commenting on the development, NMMZ’s Dr Godfrey Mahachi said: “Our teams have already moved in to commence work. We would like to thank the Minister of Tourism and Hospitality Industry for leading this process and Government for availing the much needed resources to embark on the project. “As National Museums and Monuments of Zimbabwe we are extremely excited and indeed honoured to be executing the project. Since the beginning of 100 days, we have met with different stakeholders and partners as an Enshrinement Committee, conducted several sites visits and planning missions to Chinhoyi and other sites. “It is indeed a great achievement to be able to start the work and I would also like to add my voice in thanking the authorities for the resources.” Tourism is the major beneficiary of this development as this will add to the diversity of the country’s tourism product. Heritage tourism is getting increasingly popular with the travelling public who seek to gain more understanding of the history and culture, as well as the people in the destinations visited. Zimbabwe Tourism Authority chief executive Dr Karikoga Kaseke said: “Tourism should be the ultimate beneficiary of this development. Our destination brand Zimbabwe – a World of Wonders, is premised on the seven wonders of our own world of which include our Rich History and Heritage and Our Wonderful People and Culture. “The development of the four sites and others will no doubt boost our tourism as this will be a welcome addition to our attraction base. We have waited for these developments for a long time and we are happy that at last both domestic and international tourists will be able to appreciate this part of our history as a result of our enshrinement programme.”