Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent A 44-YEAR-OLD man from Bulawayo’s Mzilikazi suburb allegedly hanged himself following a misunderstanding with his brother over $40 last Thursday. Mr Nelson Ndiweni was found hanging from a tree near Madamara shops next to a library in the suburb on Friday morning. Family members said that the late Mr Ndiweni was suicidal and had been threatening to kill himself since 2013. They said Mr Ndiweni attempted to hang himself a week ago but failed as the rope broke. On Thursday he used a piece of wire and shoe laces to hang himself. His brother Mr Sifanikiso Ndiweni said relations between the two soured last month when he sent him to withdraw $40 from the bank and he disappeared with it. “I sent him to the bank to withdraw money so that we could use it collectively as a family but he decided to spend it on beer. On his return after three days, I told him to leave my house as I feared his behaviour was going to corrupt my children. That’s how it ended with me,” said Mr Ndiweni. He said last week he was informed that his brother had attempted to commit suicide. “He tried to hang himself on the tree just outside our home but the rope broke. Today (Friday) we woke up to the information that he hanged himself near our local shops. “To me it’s not surprising that he committed suicide. Over the past five years whenever he got drunk he would threaten to kill himself,” he said. Mr Ndiweni said counselling him was a waste of time as he never listened to anyone. He blamed alcohol and drug abuse for his brother’s action. “We were just looking after him. Ubeyimpahla lapha (he couldn’t take care of himself). He spent his money on beer and drugs which affected him hence he committed  suicide,” he said. A Mzilikazi suburb resident who stumbled on Mr Ndiweni”s body hanging from the tree said he was a popular guy in the suburb. ‘Everyone knows him. He used to push a cart. He hanged himself using a piece of wire and  shoelaces,” he said. Bulawayo police spokesperson Inspector Precious Simango said police were treating the case as a sudden death. “We’re investigating a case involving a Bulawayo man who is suspected to have committed suicide by hanging himself,” said Insp Simango. @nqotshili