Mr Neven Mimica Farirai Machivenyika / Paidamoyo Chipunza, Harare Bureau The European Union is ready to work with the new Zimbabwe Government in formulating policies that will enable it to turn around the country’s economic fortunes. This was said by visiting EU International Development Commissioner, Mr Neven Mimica, after meeting President Mnangagwa at his Munhumutapa offices yesterday. Mr Mimica is the first high ranking EU official to visit the country since 2009. “We discussed at the highest political level after 2009 but this demonstrates that EU would like to be a reliable partner of Zimbabwe in the process of (this) historic political, democratic transition,” Mr Mimica said. “This is a process that the EU would like to engage on, to support and to accompany Zimbabwe’s authorities. We discussed it with the President and we agreed that this process should start first with fair and free elections in order to legitimise the whole reform processes in front of Zimbabwe,” said Mr Mimica. “We look positively to the period in front of us and we would like to support Zimbabwe along the lines of the reforms that would actually open space for a new Zimbabwe, democratic and prosperous Zimbabwe in the future.” Acting Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Minister, Simon Khaya Moyo said the meeting was productive as the EU had shown willingness to re-engage with Zimbabwe. “The discussions were very productive. It is quite clear the EU is aware that the new dispensation is very serious about the matters of re-engagement and certainly the trips which His Excellency has undertaken to the Sadc region, the AU, to Abidjan and recently to the People’s Republic of China are clear indications that Zimbabwe is open for business at all levels,” Minister Khaya Moyo said. “I can assure you that the discussions centred on a number of political, economic and other relations between us and the EU and in the end it was clear that the EU delegation is impressed by what is happening in the country and what efforts the new Government is making,” he said. “They will be sending another delegation later on; obviously this would be to focus on specific areas in terms of economic cooperation,” he said. He said President Mnangagwa had explained events leading to the launch of Operation Restore Legacy that ushered in the new Government. “The President took the opportunity to explain the entire situation right from the day Operation Restore Legacy came into focus and the transitional measures which have been undertaken since then. The entire delegation was very impressed by what is happening in the country. “We also touched on the coming elections and the President was very clear that these are going to be credible. We want to have elections which are free and fair and the delegation was invited to meet anybody they wish to meet in the country because we have nothing to hide.” Also in Harare yesterday, the EU availed 23 million Euros towards health and the informal sector in Zimbabwe. Majority of the funding, 20,6 million Euros will go towards ensuring equitable access to health services by women and children through reduction of maternal mortality, reduce the prevalence of stunting and mortality of children under the age of five. It will also go towards fighting HIV and Aids, malaria and other prevalent diseases. Efforts will be made to improve access by women to safe sexual and reproductive health and rights services. The other three million Euro will assist local authorities in improving infrastructure for the informal sector and grassroots associations in selected districts such as Goromonzi, Manyame, Murewa, Mutoko and those in Harare. Speaking at the signing ceremony by the EU, Government of Zimbabwe and a partnering organisation that will implement the projects in the country, Mr Mimica said the economic challenges in Zimbabwe had left many people vulnerable and resorting to the informal sector. He said the EU had a long standing partnership with Zimbabwe in the health sector, particularly for individuals in most vulnerable situations where a number of gains had already been noted. “The support of the EU can only be successful in partnership with the Government, with civil society, development partners and in particular the people that benefit from those projects,” said Mr Mimica. Health and Child Care Minister, Dr David Parirenyatwa, said the funding would go a long way in sustaining gains made in the health sector through the Health Development Fund. He said a pooled way of funding the health sector was more beneficial compared to a parallel approach evidenced by the success seen in the sector. Dr Parirenyatwa said the Ministry of Health and Child Care would continue lobbying for more resources from the national fiscus to ensure that the health sector was not over-reliant on development partners. “We will continue lobbying for more resources from the national budget so that we are not dependant on partners such as the EU, but these partners should complement us instead,” said Dr Parirenyatwa. Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister July Moyo thanked the EU for the support. “There is immense potential for these informal traders to participate and contribute towards the growth of our economies,” he said. “Our country and local authorities have for long not taken advantage of this potential in the informal sector. “I foresee this particular action providing a platform for tapping into this promising sector.”