 Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A HIGHLANDERS Football Club supporter who was battling for life at the Mpilo Central Hospital Intensive Care Unit after fell from the terraces at Barbourfields Stadium during a match between Bosso and Shabanie Mine last Sunday, has died. Prince Ncube (49), who was a soldier based at Lookout Masuku Barracks, formerly known as Llewellyn Barracks on the outskirts of Bulawayo, was seriously injured while celebrating a goal by Highlanders who won the match 3-1. It is suspected that he was drunk at the time. Ncube fell from the highest point of the rail poles that divide the sitting bays in the stadium. Nicknamed “Ndwangu”, Ncube was popular for his stunts of sliding from the top of the rail poles to the ground in celebration of goals by his favourite football club, Highlanders. Bulawayo Metropolitan Province acting police spokesperson Assistant Inspector Abednico Ncube said Ncube died at around midnight yesterday. “I can confirm receiving a report of the death of Prince Ncube, a male aged 49 who was last Sunday injured after falling off the terraces at Barbourfields Stadium. He succumbed to the serious body injuries he sustained and passed on yesterday at around 12 midnight,” he said. Ncube fell towards half time of the match and was rushed to Mpilo Central Hospital where he was admitted. Bosso who are on a roll, rekindling memories of the formidable side of the late 90s and beginning of the century, are still to be beaten this season in the league’s first seven games. Riding on their form, the 2006 champions have managed to draw huge crowds to their home matches and last week the fans heeded the #FillupBF# call by the Bosso executive as the stadium was almost filled to the rafters. Meanwhile, police have strongly warned members of the public to desist from smuggling alcohol and dangerous weapons into the stadium. Last Sunday, police intercepted 208 quarter bottles of Two Keys and 36 quarter bottles of Gold Blend whiskeys and some dangerous weapons from spectators and vendors who tried to smuggle the contraband into the stadium. — @winnie_masara. 