 Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa has opened a Twitter account to interact with the public. The President officially confirmed the page through a video posted on Twitter on Saturday, a day after also confirming that he was now on Facebook through a short video. President Mnangagwa’s Twitter account is ‘President of Zimbabwe @edmnangagwa. “I am proud to announce that this is my official twitter page,” said President Mnangagwa. Zimbabweans on Twitter welcomed President Mnangagwa’s presence, saying his account will promote a bottom up communication. “Thank you President for believing in #Dialogue. We are truly humbled to have you here. Looking forward to positive engagement with our great Nation at heart. We salute you,” a blogger, using @sammdzm account. Another one, Mr Rabison Shumba @rabisonshumba twitted: “Thank you Your Excellency. This is a huge step in the right direction. What I like about you sir is your willingness to listen and precision in acting. You speak less and act. Just what our nation needs now. We will support the progress you are spearheading. Well done so far.” The account has already amassed more than 31 000 followers. Last Friday, the President said his Facebook page will promote national dialogue in an interactive way. “To all my Facebook friends, I opened this page to communicate better with all the people of Zimbabwe. Leadership is a two-way street, I am here to listen to you to be part of a new national dialogue. So as we enter this new exciting area in Zimbabwe, I encourage you all to message me your thoughts as we move forward as one nation, together,” he said. President Mnangagwa joins several heads of States that have opened official Twitter accounts where they share their opinions and public policy. Other African presidents who have active Twitter accounts include Botswana president Ian Khama, Kenya’s Uhuru Kenyatta, among others. The opening of both Twitter and Facebook accounts comes after some criminals had opened accounts, pretending to be President Mnangagwa. And the President posted on twitter yesterday: “When we go to the elections you should not fight. When people support their parties it’s their choice. We should work for the people and not be selfish. There should be justice and national reconciliation because we cannot progress when communities are in conflict. God bless Zimbabwe.”— @nqotshili 