Norman Mapeza Mukudzei Chingwere, Midlands Bureau PREMIERSHIP kings FC Platinum wait with hope the Confederation of African Football (Caf) verdict on their eligibility of the home ground Mandava Stadium to host Champions League matches. Caf stadium inspector Kabelo Doslong of South Africa was in Zvishavane over the weekend where he ran the ruler over Mandava, Pote Hotel and Runde Lodge to see if the facilities qualify to host continental matches. As was the case in 2015 when they were allowed to play their home matches of the Caf Confederations Cup at Mandava, the champions will be optimistic of being allowed to use their venue again. Early last year the miners further gave their stadium a facelift with special attention given to the drainage system to allow matches to be played even on a rainy day. Zifa communications manager Xolisani Gwesela said they are now waiting the verdict from Caf but expressed optimism that the Zimbabwean representatives will be granted their wish of playing in Zvishavane. “The Caf stadium inspector inspected Mandava and facilities in Zvishavane on Saturday to assess if they qualify to host Caf matches. “We are now waiting for their verdict. Caf will notify us if the venue qualifies to host the matches. We are not sure when they will give us their response but obviously they will tell us in time before the tournament starts. “But as an association we are optimistic that they will be allowed to play their matches at Mandava. In 2015 they were allowed to play Confederations Cup matches in Zvishavane and the facilities are still in a very good state and we are optimistic they will be given the nod again,” said Gwesela. Meanwhile, Norman Mapeza continues to strengthen his side ahead of the Caf deadline tonight. The platinum miners are eyeing Harare City utility man Edwin Madhananga after their efforts to get Liberty Chakoroma from Ngezi Platinum failed. The Harare City utility player is expected to complete his switch to FC Platinum today and immediately join up with the rest of his teammates in Bulawayo where they are camped for a crash pre-season programme. Midfielder Nigel Makumbe who was initially overlooked on the initial squad submitted to Caf has reportedly been drafted into the squad together with Madhanhanga as replacements for Nqobizitha Masuku who has been linked with a move to Zambia and Chakoroma. The miners will submit their final squad to Caf for the Champions today and with only two changes expected on the initial squad.