Takesure Chiragwi Mukudzei Chingwere, Midlands Bureau SHABANIE Mine executive last week engaged their technical department led by Takesure Chiragwi to map the way forward for the upcoming Premiership season and allaying fears of selling the club’s franchise that has been mooted earlier. The club supporters had blasted management for mooting a plan to relinquish their topflight status arguing that the hugely popular club must be a community team rather than being sold. The announcement of considering selling the franchise came after serious concerns were raised by the top management that the club was no longer in a position to meet its financial obligations. Some businesspeople in Zvishavane pledged to contribute something towards the team to address its financial position that had threatened its existence. Last week coaches Chiragwi and Taku Shariwa met the management in Zvishavane and were told to start assembling a team to compete in the Premier League in the 2018 season. The duo accepted to return but asked to be paid a year’s salary they are owed by the club before resuming their job. “Yes it is true that we met them and they told us to come back to work to start preparing for this season. They gave us the green light to assemble a team and retain players for the upcoming season. “We accepted the offer to come back but we told them that they need to settle our salaries from the previous season before we can start preparing for this season. “So as it is we will be coming back to work but we are not yet sure of the dates since they are yet to give us feedback regarding our outstanding salaries,” said technical manager Shariwa. Shariwa and Chiragwi last season defied odds by surviving the dreaded chop despite operating on arguable the poorest budget in the league. If they return to duty the Chinda Boys are likely to assemble a new team altogether with most of their players having been targeted by clubs with better financial backing. Veteran defender Zvenyika Makonese who is turning 41 this year has already availed himself for the Chinda Boys.