 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter BOSSO members will have to choose from the quartet competing for the committee member’s posts made up of Peacot Dlomo, Charles Moyo, Silandula Sam Sibanda and incumbent Wisdom Mabhena. The trio of Israel Moyo, Nkululeko Ndlovu and Siphatho Ncube are competing for the secretary’s position. Today Chronicle Sport looks at the secretary’s position candidates. Nkululeko Ndlovu: He holds a MBA and has experience in business and economic development spanning over 10 years. He has worked as an administrator in government and in the private sector. He says: “I have a strong passion for organisational transformation and have helped transform a number of failing organisations through my consultancy work.” His wish is to assist Highlanders to operate as a viable business entity that will run profitably. Regarding his debt retirement plan for the club, he says: “Once voted into office, the executive must come up with a number of ad hoc committees that will be given clear terms of reference, chief among these will be a debt retirement plan under a Debt Retirement Committee. Many other committees should be formed as a turnaround strategy, for example, a Business Development Committee, Disciplinary Committee, High Profile Technical Committee and Business Entities Committee  to help the Bosso business units to operate effectively.” Ndlovu believes revenue can be realised from periodic subscriptions from members and supporters. He is of the view that Bosso can save a significant amount through club infrastructural resuscitation, such as using their camping house in Gwabalanda and training at the club house grounds. On human capital he says: “Our players’ contracts need some expertise in drafting them. High administration skills are required to draft and monitor the contracts for members of staff and players. It’s needless to lose players as free agents. This must be well managed and there is a way of doing this. Siphatho Ncube: He is a Bosso life member with a Christian background. He describes himself as “an entrepreneur, family man, an administrator of note, qualified soccer coach and football expert of note”. He is a finance and administrative manager at a non-governmental organisation and has previously served as a Highlanders’ committee member. He says his strengths lie in administrative competence, knowledge of football laws and technical acumen. Ncube says he has a passion for football administration and was one of the founder coaches of Highlanders’ Royals and also provided administrative and financial support to the team. During his tenure as a committee member, he says he helped in setting up Highlanders’ supporters chapters around the country. He believes the club must have viable chapters nationally and internationally that can provide sound monetary support for the club. He firmly believes in a vibrant junior policy and developing local talent for the club. Siphatho is a qualified soccer coach, who has coached Highlanders Under-18, Bulawayo Auto Clinic, Ajax Hotspurs, Luveve Big Five and has a functional knowledge of the game, players’ needs and the economics of football. With 15 years experience as a finance and administration manager with a Bulawayo-based NGO, he believes he has vast access to networks in the international community, the corporate sector and key national institutions. He also says he spearheaded the setting up of soccer festivals in places such as Gwanda, Nkayi and Matobo. Through this system, he has been able to second talented youngsters to top Premiership teams, including Highlanders. “At this time, Highlanders need a system of identifying talent from outlying rural areas. This system produces loyal and talented players that are able to serve the club. I would thus add value to the approach of the coach, who believes in home grown talent.” Israel Moyo: The 52-year-old dreams of a debt free, commercially viable Highlanders FC brand that meets various stakeholders’ expectations He envisages a revamped youth development policy that produces quality players for the first team and for export. He also promises to initiate commercially viable projects under the team banner to increase revenue streams as well as engage and organise friendly matches with local, regional and international sides to boost club revenue during the off-season and international breaks. If elected, Moyo says he will engage key creditors for debt relief strategies, including write-offs and rescheduling. Israel Moyo He also promises to improve transparency, accountability and discipline in the club’s financial management system. Moyo is a holder of an Honours Bachelor of Business Studies degree, Master of Science Degree in Finance and Investment and several certificates in Project Management, Credit Management, ICT and Marketing. He is presently a lecturer and department coordinator in the Faculty of Commerce at the Catholic University of Zimbabwe, Bulawayo Campus. Moyo served in the Highlanders’ internal audit committee in 2000. He was an ordinary member of Highlanders from 1999-2004 and upgraded to life membership in 2004. — @ZililoR