Miles Hollington Kudzai Mpangi, Showbiz Reporter ZIMBABWE’S rising singer and songwriter, Miles Hollington is perhaps one of Zimbabwe’s brightest musical hopes given his musical journey. The 18-year-old Petra High School pupil, Hollington recently debuted a hot video for his single You Will Make It which has taken people by storm. The video was directed by one of Bulawayo’s best filmmakers Daniel Lasker. Having graced so many musical concerts from Marimba concert to Island Hospice musical, his musical competence has landed him a big deal to perform in Hollywood in July. Hollington was chosen among 80 contestants to represent Zimbabwe at the World Championships of Performing Arts to be held in Hollywood, USA. The talented young singer is supposed to raise funds $6 000 to be able to participate in the world stage which will see his career reaching greater heights. He is supposed to pay $2 000 deposit for the trip. Speaking in an interview with The Chronicle, the dedicated singer said he is overwhelmed by the prospects of representing Zimbabwe on the world stage. “This is a dream come true and a lifetime opportunity that I have been given to represent my country at the world stage. This platform will showcase my talent to potential scouts and I stand a chance to win a scholarship that will help in my musical journey,” Hollington said. He said that it has been a long time trying to make his talent known in the music industry and this platform is a dream come true for him and was appealing for assistance to raise the required money. “I have tried very hard to establish some sort of ground in which I would be able to pursue music as a career. I’m supposed to raise money in order to go to Hollywood and I am appealing to individuals, companies, NGOs and the Government to assist me,” he said. Those who want to help can contact his mother Thandiwe Hollington on 0784847848. The World Championships of Performing Arts is an international performing arts talent competition and educational experience held annually in Hollywood. Young singers, dancers, instrumentalists, actors and models from around the world battle it out for the coveted title of grand champion of the world and more than 50 countries are represented at the competition. — @kayskudzai