Norman Mapeza Mukudzei Chingwere, Harare Bureau FC PLATINUM coach, Norman Mapeza has described the club’s final squad for the Champions League as the best the Zvishavane miners could have assembled. The Premiership kings made some adjustments to the squad they submitted to the Confederation of African Football in time for yesterday’s deadline. Mapeza’s men sent in a revised 27-man list that took into account the fact that they had failed to secure the services of such players like midfielders Liberty Chakoroma who elected to stay on at Ngezi Platinum and Nqobizitha Masuku who is moving to Zambia. FC Platinum also secured the signature of Harare City’s versatile midfielder Farai Madhanhanga. The Zimbabwean Champions play, Deportivo Primero de Agosto of Angola away in the preliminary round on the weekend of 9-11 February. Madhanhanga, a member of Callisto Pasuwa’s CHAN squad that featured at the Rwanda tournament in 2016, can play as left back and in midfield and it is that versatility that charmed Mapeza who apparently had only one recognised left back, Elvis Moyo. The two-time championship winning coach thanked his executive for bringing in the players he wanted saying the onus was on his charges to work hard and achieve their objectives. “We just added a few guys to the squad to have depth in all departments. I am more than happy and I do believe we can reach our set objectives. No regrets at all. “We just need to keep working hard like before. Many thanks to the club bosses for bringing in all players we wanted this coming season,” said Mapeza. Zimbabwe’s sole representative in the African Safari chose to fill 27 of the mandated 30 slots but they will not be allowed to further alter their squad until they have reached the group stages. In order to reach that lucrative stage, FC Platinum would have to go past the opening two rounds. From their initial 28-man squad they submitted to CAF on December 31 they have removed Chakoroma and Masuku who has since left the country to join Zambian Premier League side Buildcon. Despite still having space to add more players, FC Platinum chose to wield the axe on 2017 non-performers like Takesure Chinyama who failed to live up to his big reputation. FC Platinum are currently camped in Bulawayo for their pre-season programme, where they will be based for three weeks. During their stay in Bulawayo, FC Platinum are looking at playing some international friendly matches. Meanwhile FC Platinum are confidently waiting that CAF will give them the greenlight to use Mandava when they begin their Champions League campaign next month. CAF stadium inspector Kabelo Doslong of South Africa was in Zvishavane over the weekend where he ran the rule over Mandava. The CAF inspector also took a look the venues which the miners have listed as accommodation sites for visiting teams and match officials. FC Platinum have listed Pote Hotel and Runde Lodge to see if the facilities qualify to host continental matches and teams. While there has never been much of a challenge with the stadium and its pitch, it has been the lack of accommodation facilities in Zvishavane that has previously presented FC Platinum with a problem and they had to play Sudanese giants El Merreikh in Harare because of that. The miners early last year gave their stadium a facelift with special attention given to the drainage system to allow matches to be played even on a rainy day. ZIFA communications and competitions manager Xolisani Gwesela said they are now awaiting the verdict from CAF but expressed optimism that Zimbabwe’s sole representatives in continental football, will be granted their wish of playing their matches in Zvishavane. “The CAF stadium inspector inspected Mandava and facilities in Zvishavane on Saturday to assess if they qualify to host CAF matches and teams. “We are now waiting for their verdict. CAF will notify us if the venue qualifies to host the matches. We are not sure when they will give us their response but obviously they will tell us in time before the tournament starts. “But as an association we are optimistic that they (FC Platinum) will be allowed to play their matches at Mandava. In 2015 they were allowed to play Confederation Cup matches in Zvishavane and the facilities are still in a very good state and we are optimistic they will be given the nod again,” said Gwesela. FC Platinum CAF Champions League Squad: Goalkeepers: Francis Tizayi, Petros Mhari, Wallace Magalane, Collin Phiri Defenders: Raphael Muduviwa, Jameson Mukombwe, Elvis Moyo, Kelvin Moyo, William Sitima, Gift Bello, Lawrence Mhlanga Midfielders: Winston Mhango, Edwin Madhanhanga, Never Tigere, Kelvin Madzongwe, Marshall Mudehwe, Hillary Bakacheza, Rahman Kutsanzira, Rodwell Chinyengetere, Bret Amidu, Ali Sadiki Strikers: Mkhokheli Dube, Gift Mbweti, Albert Eonde, Shadreck Mayembe, Nigel Papias, Charles Sibanda