Joey Antipas Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter CHICKEN Inn will step up their pre-season training by playing international friendly matches against former Zambian champions Zanaco and Nkana Red Devils over the weekend. The Gamecocks, who lifted the 2015 Castle Lager Premiership title, will take on Zambia’s 2016 title winners Zanaco in their first international friendly at Luveve Stadium on Friday before taking on Nkana Red Devils three days later. Zanaco arrived in the country on Friday last week for a friendly against FC Platinum in Zvishavane yesterday while Nkana Red Devils were expected in Bulawayo last night. “Everyone is looking forward to seeing how the pre-season is shaping up at the club and we will play Zambian sides Zanaco and Nkana Red Devils on Friday and Monday. The match against Zanaco will be played at Luveve Stadium and we’ve set a $1 all-round charge as we want Bulawayo fans that’ve been starved of football entertainment during off-season, to enjoy. “On Monday, we will play Nkana Red Devils in a closed stadium and that will be more like a training game where both sides will exchange drills,” said Tawengwa Hara, Chicken Inn’s secretary. Zanaco are home to two Zimbabwean internationals, ex-Tsholotsho and now defunct Motor Action utility player Zimiseleni Moyo and former Caps United winger Tafadzwa Rusike. Joey Antipas, who led Chicken Inn to the 2015 championship, is back at the club and will be using the international matches to assess his players’ fitness levels and try new combinations. Chicken Inn finished fourth last season under Rahman Gumbo. “So far so good, things have been going according to plan and everyone is working hard to get in shape. We’re in our second week of pre-season training and playing these friendly matches will give us an idea of how our preparations are going. We will try new faces as we continue with our work of building a squad that will effectively compete,” said Antipas. New faces at Chicken Inn include midfielder Simon Munawa, who was offloaded by Highlanders, young striker Obriel Chirinda, who was at South African side Ubuntu FC, ex-Tsholotsho utility player Xolani Ndlovu and former How Mine central defender Kudzi Chideu. Antipas has retained the core of last season’s squad, which includes veteran Clemence Matawu, striker Obidiah Tarumbwa, Moses Jackson, Thabani Goredema, last season’s PSL Goalkeeper of the Year Elvis Chipezeze, Divine Lunga and George Majika. @ZililoR