High Court Justice Nokuthula Moyo Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief A BULAWAYO High Court Judge, Justice Nokuthula Moyo has bemoaned the increase in violent deaths suffered at the hands of fellow family members in the country. Officially opening the Gweru High Court Circuit yesterday, Justice Moyo said even bars which should be places for people to get merry are being turned into slaughter houses as people are killed over petty issues. The judge said the Midlands province should have a permanent High Court to deal with serious cases that include murder that is on the increase countrywide. “Violence, domestic or otherwise, dominates our news headlines nowadays. It is worrying how violent society has suddenly become and loss of life through violence within families is now a major cause for concern. Love triangles, spousal misunderstandings, parent-child disputes many a time end in tragedy. There is a need in our society for those in the fields of psychology to study the current volatility in families and assist by coming up with ways that will help families resolve disputes,” she said. Justice Moyo said deterrent sentences had been passed in appropriate cases, but had failed to curtail the vice in society. She said petty disputes have sometimes resulted in unnecessary loss of life either through murder or suicide. “We now have this evil in the form of domestic violence staring us in our faces and all of us, the courts, its stakeholders and the society at large have a duty to do something about this never ending problem,” she said. Strategies, Justice Moyo said, had to be devised to address the underlying causes of violence and to come up with an effective plan. She said the Domestic Violence Act was a step in the right direction. The judge said its enactment has however not stopped violent behaviour in families as society continues to wake up to read about heinous acts in newspapers on a daily basis. “It appears violence in our society is still carrying on like wild fire.  As courts, we deal with the end result, but perhaps strategies that address the cause should be implemented,” said Justice Moyo. She said the Gweru High Court Circuit was going to deal with 22 murder cases in  10 days. “The court will sit for 10 days in the two weeks that the circuit court operates and it is mission impossible to hear 22 murder cases in 10 days. Of the 22 cases, one has eight accused persons, this in essence means that it’s a single case that needs the same amount of time as eight single cases. We accordingly send out a plea to the authorities that be, to speed up the setting of a permanent High Court station in this town,” she said. One of the accused persons to appear before Justice Moyo is Dingilizwe Dube (39) of Nkayi who allegedly killed four Gokwe sisters after torching a hut they were sleeping in.