 Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIFA Southern Region Division One side Talen Vision have announced their administrative and technical structure ahead of the 2018 season in which they expect to win the sole ticket to the Premiership. Talen Vision ended the 2017 season seventh on the table, but believe they have the arsenal, administratively, technically as well as on the playing field to challenge for honours this season. They have already beefed up their playing personnel by acquiring the services of three Nigerian players and three players on loan from relegated Bantu Rovers. According to the club’s chief executive officer Juma Phiri, the administrative line-up is headed by chairman Mishon Tsabalaka “Our vice-chairman is Sabelo Mpofu, the secretary-general is Mthokozisi Langa and treasurer is Thembelihle Nkomo. Our president is Khumbulani Nkomo, with Qiniso Dube as his deputy,” said Phiri. Long serving football administrator Otrick Siziba is the team patron, while Methembe Nkomo and Jason Sibanda are the two committee members. Phiri said their technical department will be headed by Miroslav Nemec, a 63-year-old Slovakian national, who will be assisted by Saul Ndlovu, with veteran goalkeepers’ coach Johannes Tshuma training the shot stoppers. Owen Butete, Xolani Nkundlande and Scouter Makhosi Mbeba will be in charge of the juniors, while Wellington Nyathi is acting team manager and Kuda Mutandavari heads the medical department. Phiri said the team will have an official unveiling ceremony of its players ahead of the 2018 season soon. “We must, however, make it known that we are eyeing qualification to the Premiership and make no mistake about that,” said Phiri. The Zifa Southern Region league promises to be exciting and even gruelling, as it is also seasoned side Hwange, who were relegated from the Premiership and have also made it known that they have no intention of staying in the second tier league for too long. There is also Tsholotsho, while the status of Bantu Rovers is not yet clear. @skhumoyo2000