Xolisani Gwesela Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter FC PLATINUM are still waiting for Caf to release its verdict on the status of accommodation facilities in Zvishavane for them to know where to stage their preliminary stage Champions League match next month. A Caf inspection team was in Zvishavane three weeks ago to inspect mainly accommodation facilities in the mining town and determine whether they meet expected minimum standards for use by visiting teams for the African safari. If facilities are condemned like in 2012, FC Platinum will be left with no option, but to play their games away from Mandava Stadium. Coach Norman Mapeza has already indicated his preference for Bulawayo’s Barbourfields Stadium if Caf condemns facilities in Zvishavane. “We are still waiting; no position has been given to us by Caf as yet and I think we might have to ask them over the weekend,” said Zifa communications manager Xolisani Gwesela. According to the rules and regulations of the tournament, the host association is entitled to play its home match in the capital of the country or in any other city. In this case, transport for the visiting team from the capital to the city designated for the match and back is borne by the host association. If the distance between the capital city and the venue of the match is more than 200 kms, the host association shall provide the visitors with air travel to the match venue and back. If this is not possible, the match shall be played in the capital city except by agreement between the two teams. The 2017 Catsle Lager Premiership kings have not been resting on their laurels, but busy with their preparations at their training base in Bulawayo. They confirmed three friendly matches yesterday before beginning their campaign against Angolan champions Clube Desportivo de Agosto in the preliminary round on February 11, in Luanda, Angola. They will play Mozambican giants Ferroviario de Beira as well as Zambian sides Nkana Red Devils and Zanaco at Mandava Stadium They will play against the Mozambican giants tomorrow before hosting Zanaco on January 30. Their last international friendly will be on February 3 against Nkana Red Devils. FC Platinum have set their sights on reaching the group stages of the tournament, but their immediate hurdle is obviously overcoming the qualifying stages. If they beat the Angolan side, they will face South Africa’s Bidvest Wits or Pamplemousses of Mauritius in the second and final round of the group stage qualifiers. — @skhumoyo2000