Cde William Dhewa Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter PARLIAMENT has urged Treasury to avail $125 million for the digitalisation programme so that the programme, which the legislators say is behind schedule, is completed by June this year. Presenting a post-budget report compiled by the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Media, Information Communication Technology, Postal and Cyber Security in Parliament on Tuesday, the committee’s chairperson Cde William Dhewa said it was important for Government to adequately fund the digitalisation exercise. Cde Dhewa, who is also the legislator for Umzingwane said funds allocated to ministries must be disbursed timeously so that projects are effectively executed. “The $125 million that the ministry has asked for should be made available so that the ministry can complete the digitalisation project and migrate from analogue to digital transmission. “The implementation of this programme is behind schedule and should be completed by 30th June this year. The digitalisation of the television sites, construction of transmission towers should be completed and operationalised by end of June this year,” said Cde Dhewa. He said the film training school should be fully utilised to generate revenue. Cde Dhewa said the Broadcasting Authority of Zimbabwe (BAZ) board should be appointed as a matter of urgency to ensure good corporate governance. “The ministry should have a minister for policy direction. Completed digital transmitters should be switched on because some of the transmitters have already been completed and are digital compliant but have not been switched on. “The Zimbabwe Commission Board should also be constituted and we expect ZBC/TV to come up with content that attracts viewership and advertisers for revenue generation,” said Cde Dhewa. “The committee noted with concern that the funding provided by Treasury is inadequate for the Information Ministry to achieve its set objectives for the fiscal year, especially the digitalisation project.” — @pamelashumba1. 