A classroom block at Gumede Primary School in Lupane that was destroyed by a storm Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A SECOND school in Lupane, Matabeleland North province has been destroyed by a hailstorm, exposing children to the rains. Four classroom blocks were destroyed at Gumede Primary School, leaving the school with only two blocks. Gumede Primary School is the second to be destroyed by a hailstorm this year in Lupane after Tshongogwe Primary School. Kusile Rural District Council’s chief executive officer, Mr Christopher Tshuma said the district’s civil protection unit (CPU) was on the ground assessing the extent of the damage. “In general, the school was badly damaged leaving the greater part of learners with no room for learning. As it is rainy season, lessons will be greatly affected, so we are organising temporary shelter such as tents while we source materials for repairs,” he said. Matabeleland North acting Provincial Education Director Mr Jabulani Mpofu confirmed the destruction at the school. “We have just received information on the destruction of the school. It is sad to note that the province continues to lose schools to heavy winds and rains. “Learning will be affected which is a draw back for pupils, the school and the province as a whole. Disturbances to learning activities definitely affect the pass rates. We wish repairs could be quickly done so that learning resumes immediately,” he said. Mr Mpofu said most school buildings in the province are now old and there is need for renovations. “It is wise to once in a while renovate our classroom blocks as many of them need revamping. Quick repairing is needed to ensure lessons resume immediately without pupils losing out on education and time,” he said. Lupane West MP, Cde Martin Khumalo appealed for help in repairing the infrastructure. “A classroom block roof at Tshongogwe Primary School in Sobendle Ward, homes, shops, at Tshongogwe irrigation scheme, the storeroom and a grinding mill in Mzola had roofs blown off earlier this month. “In November last year, Pupu Primary School in the same district experienced the same challenge. Classrooms were destroyed and things were left in the open affecting teachers and pupils. Damages keep mounting in the province and assistance is really needed as those previous damages still haven’t been fixed. We are appealing to stakeholders and well-wishers for donations and resources so that we’re able to do repairs,” said Cde Khumalo. In January last year, five schools were damaged by heavy rains in the province leaving scores of children learning under trees. @winnie_masara