Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief A $90 000 state-of-the-art clinic whose construction was initiated by President Emmerson Mnangagwa was yesterday opened in Zvishavane to provide services to about 4 500 villagers. Officially opening Dambudzo Clinic in Mashauke Ward 3, Midlands Minister of State for Provincial Affairs Cde Owen Ncube said the health facility was President Mnangagwa’s brainchild. “The President started constructing this clinic some years back after which the project was embraced by Runde Rural District Council and Zvishavane Community Share Ownership Trust upon completion. His Excellency is the son of this land. Today we are celebrating not only this clinic that he initiated but also his elevation to be the President of the country,” he said. Cde Ncube said the commissioning of the clinic was a result of collaboration and partnerships between the private sector, Government and the community. “In addition to the key player who is the President, other key players who saw through this project are Mimosa Mines by providing at least $90 000 through the Zvishavane Share Community Ownership Trust, Runde RDC and the local community for contributing locally available materials. I also want to thank Zvishavane CSOT for the tremendous support in facilitating development projects in this area. I want to urge you to continue with the commendable effort,” he said. Cde Ncube said the opening of the clinic was in line with the Government’s 100 plan. “The initiative in question is meant to ensure that Government business is results-driven so as to positively transform the socio-economic fortunes of the country within the shortest time frame. May I therefore take this opportunity to call upon all arms of government to readily embrace the new agenda and develop,” he said. “In addition every government agency in the province needs to be pragmatic and readily responsive to the public. The opening of this clinic will shorten the distance the people were travelling to Mapanzure Clinic which is more than 10 km away. This will offer all primary health care such as antenatal services, child care, and others resulting in improving in health of about 4 500 people within this catchment area.” The clinic is well equipped with machines, beds and medicines. Government has already deployed health personnel to the institution. “This new dispensation led by President Mnangagwa has opened this state of the art clinic in about 60 days, something which the previous government failed to do in 12 years because they did not want to see development in this area which is the rural home for our President. In 12 years, the villagers were being forced to travel to a clinic 10 km away but now they are just going to walk a stone’s throw and access health care. This shows that this new dispensation is pro-development, it’s pro-people,” said Cde Ncube. He donated 100 bags of cement for other developments at the clinic and pledged to have electricity installed at the centre in less than a month.