Rodwell Dhlakama Noel Munzabwa, Sports Correspondent CHAPUNGU United technical advisor Rodwell Dhlakama has resurfaced in Swaziland where he is technically assisting his former side Manzini Sundowns for two weeks. The former national Under-17 team coach arrived in Swaziland on Monday for a social visit, but quickly hooked up with his former boss Mark Carmichael, who then sought to maximise on the coach’s experience. Dhlakama said he enjoyed a cordial relationship with Sundowns. “Mark Carmichael is a good friend of mine since my days as head coach. We have always shared notes every now and then. This time around I was on a private visit when he invited me to assist the team during my two weeks,” said Dhlakama. The former Chrome Secondary School teacher is enjoying his off-season ahead of the forthcoming season amid growing speculation he could be appointed Chapungu head coach after a futile attempt to join ZPC Kariba. Carmichael, the Sundowns managing director, told the Swazi Observer on Wednesday that they were tapping into Dhlakama’s experience. “Dhlakama will be giving me advice on how to integrate young players into the first team. He is coming to teach all of us; me, Penuel (Malinga) and even Musa Manyatsi. All of us at the club will learn from Dhlakama. He will be here for just a month,” said Carmichael. “He is one of the most advanced coaches in Africa. His experience and the kind of players he has developed, such as Khama Billiat and Knowledge Musona, speaks volumes. His success rate can’t be ignored,” he said. Carmichael was quick to point out that present head coach Musa Manyatsi’s job was safe. Manyatsi’s job has been under scrutiny since Sundowns roped in the experienced Dhlakama. Manyatsi took over the reins from Ernest Mavuso, who left the club to join fellow Premier League side Moneni Pirates in November 2017. Although Sundowns have been inconsistent in the league, Manyatsi has led the club to the quarter-finals of the SMVAF Ingwenyama Cup and Carmichael gave the coach his backing, but also reminded him about the importance of winning. “Everybody at the club must do an introspection. Sport is a result business. Results guarantee anyone’s position, but Manyatsi’s job is secure. However, permanent job security is a different story. Longevity in the job will be determined by results. We like Manyatsi and the fact that he has been with us for about three years now means something,” Carmichael said. Dhlakama had two coaching stints in Swaziland, first with Sundowns during which he won two trophies before a short stint with Green Mamba. — @NoelMunzabwa