Distruction Boyz at Club Connect DISTRUCTION Boyz’s celebration party turned into a nightmare on Saturday night. The event was held at the Artizen Restaurant and Lounge in KwaMashu, north of Durban. The Omunye hitmakers were celebrating after scooping the Song of the Year award. Their gqom album also reached gold status. All hell broke loose when tickets at the gate were sold out. The people who were outside started pushing the gate and the gate fell over. A witness blamed the organisers for the chaos. “The tickets were very cheap,” he said. “Even whoonga addicts could afford to buy them. For a group like Distruction Boyz to sell tickets at R50 was careless.” He said when it was announced that the tickets were sold out, the crowd demanded free entry. “The bouncers tried to control the crowd but they were outnumbered. “The gate was also damaged in the process,” he said. He added that tsotsis took advantage of the situation. “Many people were robbed at the venue.” Another witness told Daily Sun: “Women were forced to take off their expensive Brazilian and Peruvian wigs. “They put them in their bags as they were being snatched. “Those with expensive takkies were also forced to take them off.” Lounge boss Sphiwe Mcanyana said what happened was very unfortunate. “Many people love Distruction Boyz and I agree with those who say the tickets were ridiculously cheap. “It was the fourth time the group came to perform at my place but this has never happened before.” He said he will meet the group to discuss future plans and discuss what happened. The Boyz thanked all those who attended the event on Twitter. They posted: “We really appreciate the support, Good Morning Everyone.” The pair refused to comment about the incident. Meanwhile, If you were rooting for Cassper Nyovest to make a clean sweep at this year’s 24th annual South African Music Awards, then you’re in for some disappointment. The rapper, whose renowned for filling massive venues, says he did not submit his third studio album, Thuto for consideration in the 2018 SAMAs. “It’s been a long debate at the office and as much as I love making the fans Happy I’m just over the Samas,” Cassper told fans on Twitter. The 27-year-old says he would much rather perform and not take part in the awards at all. “I just love putting on world class performances you know,” he said. According to the rapper, he has experienced a lot of hate in the industry and he just grew tired of not winning even when he deserved to.— DailySun.