Madinda Ndlovu Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter THE local player transfer window is in full swing, with clubs jostling to assemble strong squads ahead of the forthcoming season. The Premier Soccer League (PSL) has set March 10 as the kick-off date for the season. Clubs are expected to have submitted their squads to the PSL by February 23 although squads can still be altered up to March 31 when the window shuts. Pre-season provides the perfect build-up to the season as it is a period spiced up by player transfer rumours, gossip and speculation. The appointment of Madinda Ndlovu as Highlanders’ new coach is one that has inspired the club’s long suffering fan base following a league title drought spanning more than a decade. Bosso have opted to embark on a rebuilding exercise and are conducting their training in total secrecy. They called off trials this year and it’s highly unlikely that they will splash any cash on the transfer market. As things stand, the core of the team will be players from their developmental side, Bosso 90. Neighbours, Chicken Inn, who have welcomed back title-winning coach Joey Antipas, are in the market to bolster their squad. Antipas said he was working to build a formidable side ahead of the 2018 season. New faces at Chicken Inn’s training this week include midfielder, Simon Munawa, who was offloaded by Highlanders, young striker Obriel Chirinda, who was at South Africa’s Ubuntu FC, ex-Tsholotsho FC utility player Xolani Ndlovu, How Mine’s central defender Kudzai Chideu and goalkeeper Takudzwa Ndoro. Former champions, Caps United, began their 2018 season preparations this week with a number of familiar faces as they aim to recover from last season’s performance. Oscar Machapa, Chris Mverechena, Dominic Mukandi and former How Mine shot-stopper Munyaradzi Diya have been training with the team while Ronald Chitiyo and Simba Nhivi are expected to join the team next week. Forgotten former Kiglon, Shooting Stars and Dynamos’ utility player Thomas Magorimbo and striker Clive Kawinga are also training with the Harare giants. Their arch-rivals Dynamos have dropped plans to hold trials ahead of the 2018 season after coach Lloyd Mutasa revealed his satisfaction with the players they have signed so far. Dynamos have confirmed the signing of six players, who include Jimmy Tigere, James Marufu, Raphael Manuvire, Marvelous Mukumba, Blessing Moyo and teenage prodigy Panashe Mutasa, who is joining them from Aces Youth Soccer Academy. Ngezi Platinum coach, Tonderai Ndiraya, has acquired the services of four players and negotiations to bring in more are still on-going. The club has already snapped up midfielder Tichaona Chipunza following the expiry of his contract with Dynamos. They have also signed defender Frank Makarati and goalkeeper Bernard Donovan from How Mine. Players such as Washington Pakamisa, David Goriyati, goalkeeper Tinashe Matore, Edgar Tapera, Knowledge Machona and Davidson Tavari will, however, not be part of the Ngezi squad after they were released by the club. Former skipper Partson Jaure has joined Zambian Premiership side Buildcon while midfielder Dominic Mukandi has re-joined Caps United. The likes of Dennis Dauda, Elisha Muroiwa and Praise Tonha are also being linked with Ngezi. Newly-established Zifa Eastern Region Division One side Manica Diamonds have stolen the show in the transfer market. They have shown their financial muscle and attracted a number of seasoned campaigners ahead of their debut 2018 season. They have made their intentions clear that topflight football is their priority. The Mutare-based side has managed to lure well-travelled defender William Mapfumo, who was with Premiership side Shabanie Mine last season. Ex-Dynamos and ZPC Munyati striker Jacob Muzokomba, former Motor Action and Shabanie Mine midfielder Lewis Matawu and Benjamin Marere, who was with Black Rhinos last season, have all joined Manica Diamond. The others heading for Mutare are former Motor Action and Chicken Inn forward Ishmael Lawe, Moses Gutu, formerly of Triangle and How Mine, Nelson Tachi, formerly of ZPC Kariba and How Mine and former Black Rhinos goalkeeper, Jonathan Zvaita. Former Motor Action and How Mine midfielder Thembani Masuku and ex-ZPC Kariba midfielder, Philip Makanje, have also joined the side. Troubled Dynamos midfielder Denver Mukamba is also believed to be on Manica Diamond’s radar. @innocentskizoe