DJ Slamma puts a ring on Thenjiwe Dube’s finger. —Pictures by Temba Chirwa Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent While some were deep in revelry during the 2016 edition of Oskido’s all White Party at the then Club Eden (now Cosmopolitan) in Bulawayo, two people were falling in love! And this love was cemented on Thursday when Bulawayo wheel spinner DJ Slamma popped the question to his girlfriend, now fiancé Thenjiwe Dube at the Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo International Airport. DJ Slamma who was a prominent figure at Club Eden and a member of the Baller’s League decided to remove himself from the dating market and settle down with Thenjiwe this week. A video he shared on his Facebook page of him on bended knee outside the airport proposing to Thenjiwe moments after she landed from her United Kingdom base has garnered DJ Slamma congratulatory messages from friends, fellow DJs and relatives. In an interview, DJ Slamma real name Gordon Imbayago and his new found life partner Thenjiwe said they met two years ago during Oskido’s All White Party on Christmas day. “I saw her in the club and she was with her friends in 2016. I liked her and she was being impossible, but she asked me to drive her to Chicken Inn that’s in the city centre. I drove her there in her car and then we got there and she said I want food and I went in and bought her. “We drove back to Eden and then she ditched me. Then she had a birthday party the next day and she didn’t invite me,” said Slamma. He said before the Kalawa Homecoming Party he met her again and asked her out for lunch and she obliged. Thenjiwe, who is a student in the UK studying occupational therapy, said she enjoyed the lunch but she started to ignore him again.  “We started talking during lunch and struck up a conversation. But again when I went back to the United Kingdom I decided to ignore him until my friend said just talk to him and meet up with him when you get back. I was like to myself, ok let me talk to him. Then I came back to Zimbabwe last year in August. I think it’s because we spent a lot of time together that our souls connected,” said Thenjiwe. When she returned to Zimbabwe on Thursday she said it came as a surprise that DJ Slamma proposed. “Everyone in the family and my friends knew about this surprise but me. My best friend Nothando Dube was also on the flight from England and I didn’t know. At the end of the day it was a good surprise and I was smiling ear to ear and shed a tear,” said Thenjiwe. “I knew about him coming to pay the bride price but I didn’t know about the proposal.” DJ Slamma said today he was sending a delegation to her family home to pay the bride price. ‘I’m going to pay lobola for her tomorrow (today) and I’m prepared for that. Thereafter we shall attend her cousin’s wedding on Sunday,” said DJ Slamma. Thenjiwe said the wedding will be in April 2019.