Mr George Charamba Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter PERMANENT Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Mr George Charamba has said there is a need for every Zimbabwean to change the mindset if the country is to turnaround its economy. Mr Charamba said the country is desperate for a better and brighter future under the new political dispensation and emphasised the need to re-strategise efforts to improve the economy. He said economic development will never be witnessed in the country unless each and every Zimbabwean changes his or her mindset. “A new era is not made by declaration but by change of mindset and routine. “This is exactly where we’re lagging behind. We have people who are proclaiming a new era but still have an old mindset. “We just have to re-invent ourselves, not only as Government but as the private sector and every citizen of this country so that we make the new era a reality on the ground,” said Mr Charamba in an interview with Capitalk on Thursday. In the interview, Mr Charamba, who is also the Presidential spokesperson, was responding to claims made by Professor Jonathan Moyo, who appeared on BBC Hardtalk on Thursday morning. Prof Moyo made various accusations against the new Government, which he described as illegitimate. Mr Charamba urged Zimbabweans to ignore fictional characters such as Prof Moyo and worry about turning around the economy, improving their living conditions and the elections that are coming “As long as people are not thinking about productive engagement, there’s no way they can ever turnaround the economy. “There is a lot of re-invention that has to happen in the country. “The development of any nation needs a collective approach and real partnership. “No one should sit back and relax. We should all be actively involved in the economic prosperity of our country,” said Mr Charamba. He dismissed Prof Moyo’s claims and described him as a bitter and defeated politician, who suffers from a condition called power denial psychosis. — @pamelashumba1  