 Prince Sunduzani, Business Reporter THE Zimbabwe Indigenous Security Association (Zinsa) says the prevalence of unregistered security companies has resulted in loss of business by registered security companies. Speaking to Business Chronicle on the sidelines of the official opening of Nokel Security head office in Bulawayo on Saturday, Zinsa president Mr Leonard Musariri said fly-by night companies were a menace that was tarnishing the image of the country’s security industry as they provided substandard services. “The issue of unregistered security companies is quite prevalent at the moment. “A number of pensioners from the security services sector have established security companies that are not registered because that’s all they know. “Many of them are of the view that security services is about putting somebody with a baton stick in front of the gate,” said Mr Musariri. He said many of the new companies when pegging their fees just consider the salary of a security guard yet there are other overheads involved. “Registered security companies put all that into consideration and their charges for security services are higher compared to the unregistered ones.” Nokel Security acquired the building housing its head office last year at a cost of $75 000 and invested more than $50 000 to refurbish the building. “These unregistered companies charge low rates but cannot provide quality service because they do not have the capacity,” said Mr Musariri. He said as such the professionalism of security companies and their image were being compromised by these companies which were just after getting business by charging very low rates. “We want all security companies to be registered so that they meet certain benchmarks to avoid compromising quality of service. He said local and foreign investors have shown confidence in the new political administration, a development that is likely to see the demand for security services shooting up. “We believe the new dispensation will continue to improve the business environment as well as enhance the ease of doing business in order to attract both local and foreign investors. Our message to investors as registered security companies is that we have the capacity to provide the best security services,”he said. Last year, Nokel added an electronics department specialising in modern and state-of-the-art alarms, closed-circuit televisions and rapid response vehicles and apparatus. They have also set sights at attaining International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) 9001:2015 certification this year. @PrinceNkosy102