 Namibia and Zambia clinched places in the quarter-finals of the African Nations Championship (Chan) in Morocco from Group B of the tournament for locally-based players only. The Namibians left it late once again as they beat Uganda 1-0 with Panduleni Nekundi scoring the crucial goal in injury time. In the earlier game Augustine Mulenga was the hero for Zambia as he scored a goal in each half to secure a 2-0 win over Ivory Coast. The results mean that Namibia and Zambia go head-to-head on Monday to decide who tops the group while Uganda and Ivory Coast are playing for pride. Uganda dominated their game against Namibia, who dealt well with the pressure and always looked like they could create something on the counter-attack. Derrick Nsibambi had the best chances for Uganda in the second-half the first was well-saved by Loydt Kazapua while 12 minutes later he saw a shot from a tight angle go past the far post. Kazapua was called into action again in the 68th minute with a good save from a fierce shot from outside the area from Allan Kyambadde. Ten minutes later Uganda were reduced to ten men when Tim Awanyi was shown a second yellow card for a foul on Nekundi. Nekundi then scored the winner in time added on when Uganda failed to clear a ball and he received it from Itamunua Keimuine to fire home the winner. Namibia are making their debut at Chan and have never been past the group stages at their two appearances at the Africa Cup of Nations. In the earlier game Zambia took the lead after eight minutes when Augustine Mulenga fired home from the edge of the area. The local Chipolopolo doubled their lead after 72 minutes when Mulenga added his second after Ernest Mbewe led a counter-attack. The Zambians had opportunities to score more goals but Mulenga’s cross after half an hour reached Ernest Mbewe only for his downward header to bounce up and onto the bar. Ivory Coast’s attacks lacked any real threat in the first half with Gervinho’s younger brother Fonsinho having one of the better ones as he cut in from the right but his shot was too comfortable for goalkeeper Toaster Nsabat. In the second-half Ivory Coast had more of the ball but lacked any quality to create chances and Zambia disrupted their attacks easily. Midway through the second half, Zambia had a shot cleared off the line when Mbewe was thwarted again, this time by the covering Romauld Diallo. On Monday Namibia play Zambia to decide who finishes top of the group while Uganda and Ivory Coast play for pride. On Wednesday, Morocco and Sudan became the first teams to reach the quarter-finals of the tournament for African players based in their own domestic leagues.—BBC Sport