DJ Prince Nkosilodumo Ndebele, Showbiz Reporter When DJ Prince parties, he parties hard. The renowned Bulawayo DJ will today celebrate his birthday and his 22nd year in the music industry at Cosmopolitan Club. DJ Stavo, Mgarimbe, Mzoe 7, Tenny T, Steelo MaGolide, DJ Tira, NaakMusiq, Winnie Khumalo and Fiesta Black have thrown their weight behind the birthday boy through various videos on social media encouraging people to come in their numbers tonight to watch his electric performance on his special day. DJ Prince who turns 36 today revealed that it has not been an easy journey to build a name for himself in the music industry as it took him a lot of time. “I’ve managed to build a name for myself over the years and I got to build working relationships with fellow DJs and artistes in our neighbouring countries. My highest points were sharing the stage with big guys like Oskido, Black Coffee and DJ Ganyani. My inspiration has always been Ortis the Flow,” he said DJ Prince has however expressed his disappointment with local promoters. “Our local promoters try to take advantage of us, they use us and fail to pay us on time. Even though it’s hard I do not let these disappointments get to me,” said DJ Prince. In his career, DJ Prince has worked with two of Bulawayo’s top artistes Alaina and award winning rapper POY but said he does not fancy working with local artistes. “In the past we did not have local radio stations making it hard for artistes to market their work. This led to artistes handing over sub-standard music,” said DJ Prince. He said it was important for the city to have proper studios in order to improve quality of productions. “We also need platforms where DJs and artistes can hang out and even exchange ideas. When it comes to South African artistes, I get their music directly from them or their managers because I have built a good relationship with them.” DJ Prince called on companies to support artistes by sponsoring events headlined by local stars. Turning to tonight’s event, DJ Prince said people should come for a night to remember. Fellow DJs Kananjo, KeezyAM, Mzoe and Ngwisto will help him celebrate his birthday. 