Nkululeko Ndlovu Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter ASPIRING Highlanders’ secretary-general Nkululeko Ndlovu yesterday picked up nomination papers at the club’s office and immediately called for a free and fair campaign process devoid of any threats against those that hold different opinions. Highlanders’ members will choose a chairman, secretary-general and committee member on February 4 in line with the 92-year-old club constitution. “I have picked up the nomination paper and my campaign is in full swing. So far chapters are in total support of my candidature which is encouraging and I must state here and now that I don’t have any running mate, let that be on record. I, however, only want to call upon those in the race to exercise restraint and hold violent-free campaigns, which embrace tolerance to different views, not what we hear happened at the clubhouse on Monday, its unlike Highlanders,” said Ndlovu. The 41-year-old business administrator is likely to contest against Israel Moyo, who is also reported to have picked up his nomination papers this week. Club legend Lawrence “Lofty” Phiri is said to be contemplating pulling out of the secretary-general’s race, having initially expressed interest. Ndlovu’s calls for a peaceful campaign process follows reports of skirmishes at the clubhouse on Monday in which a female member, who is said to support businessman Kenneth Mhlophe, who is running for the chairmanship’s post, allegedly threatened veteran juniors coach Ali “Baba” Dube. Witnesses said the female member threatened to run over Dube with her car for allegedly bad mouthing Mhlophe. “The lady said she had the power to run over Dube with her car, accusing him of bad mouthing Mhlophe,” said a witness. However, Mhlophe distanced himself from the skirmishes and said he was a clean man, who did not condone violence. “I told Dube to go and report to the police if he was threatened because that is not my style. I have always said that I can only talk about what I want to do for the club, not what other people are saying about me. I cannot influence how or what people think,” said Mhlophe. Ndlovu said Highlanders’ members were mandated by the club’s constitution to choose a suitable candidate through a democratic process that is not influenced or coerced. “It’s an election and the best candidate must win on the day, no one must try and coerce people to vote for their candidate. The system must be open to every bonafide Highlanders’ member qualified to seek office. Let’s not have a situation where the system chooses who members must vote for. Umkhulu lomsebenzi (the task ahead is huge),” Ndlovu said. @skhumoyo2000