Hon Zindi Irene Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter ZANU-PF should get rid of the culture of creating godfathers in the country’s provinces as this causes disharmony, a Zanu-PF MP has told Parliament. In her congratulatory message on the inauguration of President Emmerson Mnangagwa in Parliament last week, Zanu-PF Mutasa South legislator Cde Irene Zindi said the new Government must be wary of creating demi-gods. She said the President must ensure that political bullies have no space in the ruling party and Government. “No to godfathers and godmothers in the political provinces whose behaviour is characteristic of dictatorial and autocratic leadership styles. “Such leaders favour their own preferred party structures at every level of the party and this creates factions and causes disharmony in the party,” said Cde Zindi. She said Government should also consider avoiding multiple positions for individuals as such appointments compromise performance and affect development in the country. “I would like to suggest that we do away with one person holding multiple positions both in the party and Government as was the old order,” said the MP. She said there should be a clear distinction between the party and Government, with those appointed as Politburo members not being Government Ministers as well. Cde Zindi commended the new Government for coming up with a lean Cabinet and downsizing Government structures, saying it will go a long way in lessening the financial burden on Treasury. She said Parliamentarians were inspired by President Mnangagwa’s inaugural address to the nation in November last year. “It’s common knowledge that Government expenditure takes up to 90 percent of the National Budget and President Mnangagwa has hit the ground running to curb that expenditure so that Government employs more financial resources into development and service delivery, with the ultimate result to cut down on Government expenditure. “We welcome the school of thought to retire those who have reached their retirement age so that they open a gap for the young unemployed youths in the civil service. “This is inspiring particularly when it is coming from the Head of State, setting the right direction to take as a Government and we are in full support as Parliament,” said Cde Zindi. She said China which has more than 1,3 billion people has a lean cabinet. “China’s highest decision making body, the Politburo Standing Committee (PSC) comprises of only seven members with each member having a specific portfolio and it is descriptive of collective leadership and 25 Politburo members in the larger Politburo. “Thus, China has no supreme leader since the death of Deng Xiaoping in 1997 in comparison to our situation where we had more than 30 Cabinet Ministers with a population of only 14 million while China has 1,35 billion.” — @pamelashumba1 