CGF President Louise Martin Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE’S return to the Commonwealth Games seems imminent after organisers said they were willing to re-admit the country following a charm offensive by President Emmerson Mnangagwa last week. “As is the case with all Commonwealth countries, the eligibility of athletes is a matter to be considered once the country is re-admitted as member. The Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) acknowledges that there is a formal process to be taken for countries that wish to apply to join the Commonwealth; this is a process that includes a final membership decision being agreed upon by the 52 Commonwealth Heads of Government. If Zimbabwe chooses to apply for reinstatement and subsequently wishes to re-join the Commonwealth Sport Movement, the Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) would welcome any such engagement at that time,” said Ben Nichols, director of communications and public affairs in the Commonwealth Games Federation. In an interview at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, last week President Mnangagwa said misunderstanding over the land reform programme saw Zimbabwe parting ways with the Commonwealth, but this was now water under the bridge as the land expropriation exercise was done and dusted. Zimbabwe left the Commonwealth in 2003 after the former President Robert Mugabe disagreed with the club’s decision to suspend Zimbabwe indefinitely at the Abuja Summit in Nigeria. Zimbabwe had been suspended from the Commonwealth in 2002 following a disputed Presidential election by the international community. This year’s Commonwealth Games will be held in Australia in April and the next edition will take place in Birmingham, England, in 2022. Zimbabwe Olympic Committee president Admire Masenda recently highlighted the importance of Zimbabwe re-joining the Commonwealth Games, which he said were helpful in preparing athletes for the Olympic Games. Masenda said the international multi-sport event was key in preparing athletes for the bigger stage.