 Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent THE Zimbabwe National Water Authority (Zinwa) is set to drill 52 boreholes and construct as many weirs in Matabeleland South Province as part of the government’s 100-day plan to address water challenges in the province. Speaking during an interview at the Matabeleland South provincial development committee meeting in Gwanda, Zinwa Mzingwane catchment technical technician, Mrs Nyararai Nyoni said under the programme, each of the 13 constituencies in the province will have four boreholes, four weirs and four roof top water harvesters. “In our 100-day programme we will drill boreholes, construct weirs and roof top water harvesting systems in Matabeleland South Province. “We will be targeting clinics, schools and communities. “The project is ongoing as we speak. The Ministry of Water, Environment and Climate has availed 1 400 bags of cement towards setting up water harvesters in Insiza and Umzingwane Districts and we expect more resources to come. “We have also purchased some of the material needed for the roof top harvesters. Three boreholes have been drilled in Beitbridge District and we will be moving to other constituencies,” she said during the meeting on Monday. Mrs Nyoni said the projects were part of efforts to address water shortage faced by communities. Speaking on the province’s water supplies, Mrs Nyoni said they had also embarked on a programme to repair damaged dams and rehabilitate silted ones. A Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority representative said they were planning to increase patrols. “For our 100-day plan we will increase our patrols to guard against activities of poachers. “Last year we lost about 22 rhinos in Bubi area in Beitbridge to these poachers and these figures have to drop. We will also engage in a fishery project where we will plant fingerlings in two dams within the province. Each dam will need 100 000 fingerlings and we are working on acquiring them,” he said. The Forestry Commission said their main focus for the 100-day programme was command agro forestry where they planned to grow fruit trees. The Environment Management Authority said their focus was to address land degradation caused by mining and to conduct clean up campaigns. The Minister of State for Matabeleland South Provincial Affairs, Cde Abednico Ncube urged departments to implement their 100-day plans in full. @DubeMatutu