Collin Osborne Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter RUGBY coaches in Bulawayo have hailed the Zimbabwe Rugby Union (ZRU) for organising coaching clinics aimed at ensuring the growth and development of the game in the country. As part of its efforts to revive rugby in the country, ZRU invited United Kingdom-based skills coach Collin Osborne to conduct a coaching clinic in the country. The coaching clinic kicked off in Harare on Wednesday before moving to Christian Brothers College in Bulawayo yesterday. The one-day programme saw coaches from around the city gathering to enhance their coaching skills. Osborne is no stranger to Zimbabwe rugby, as he was Sables’ coach between 1993 and 1996. He had other coaching stints in country before moving to the United Kingdom where he is part of the technical team for Harlequins, a top British rugby side. Local rugby side Warriors’ coach Ruben Kumpasa described the coaching clinic as an eye opener. “When you are a coach, you never stop learning; when you have guys like Osborne coming in, it’s a great learning platform. We had a coaching session in the morning where we learnt about coaching philosophy, which involves how you strategise on how to play a game. We also had an open session for senior guys, who are hoping to play for the Sables. We had about 22 coaches attending the clinic, which shows that coaches in the province are willing to learn,” Kumpasa said. Osborne was happy to help in the development of rugby in the country. “It is great to be in the country and helping where l can. The response from the coaches was great and l hope they learnt a lot of valuable lessons that they will go on to implement at their clubs,” said Osborne. Osborne, who is also among those linked to the Sables’ top job, said he was fully focused on his job in Britain and was not in a position to discuss the Sables’ post. There are four-shortlisted candidates for the job who include former Springboks coach Peter De Villiers, and ex-New Zealand boss John Mitchell. South African De Villiers has emerged as a front runner for the job.