 Thandiwe Katinhimure, Business Reporter THE Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (Comesa) has started conducting workshops on Digital Free Trade Area (DFTA) to empower cross border traders through Information Communication Technology to minimise physical barriers. Comesa is a trading bloc comprising 19 member states including Zimbabwe, Zambia, Malawi, Swaziland, Seychelles, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi, Rwanda, Egypt and Uganda. The first training on the use of ICT as a tool to minimise physical barriers was conducted in Seychelles last week. Comesa quoted Seychelles Vice President Mr Vincent Meriton saying the Digital Free Trade Area (DFTA) was a unique opportunity for free trade through ICT, which would contribute to greater regional integration. “We must therefore commend Comesa for seizing the benefits of ICT, for linking it with trade and for making the countries of our region part of today’s digital economy,” he was quoted as saying during the two-day workshop. Comesa director of Trade and Customs Dr Francis Mangeni said the workshop was proof that the regional block was moving a step closer to actualise the DFTA. “Trade facilitation is a key priority for Africa, and a DFTA is a practical way of increasing intra-regional trade and creating wealth,” he said. Dr Mangeni said providing traders with the necessary digital tools and infrastructure they need for enhancement of intra trade and global trade was a step in the right direction and important for Comesa. The Comesa DFTA is divided into three segments namely E-Trade, E-Logistics and E-Legislation. E-Trade intends to promote e–commerce by providing an online platform for Comesa region traders to trade online. Digital logistics uses ICT as a tool to improve the commercial activity of transporting goods to customers. E-legislation looks at the readiness of legislation in countries for them to carry out e-transactions and e-payments. The Comesa secretariat director for ICT Ms Lanka Dorby said member states were the ones to decide whether to use a Public Private Partnership or a government initiative for implementing the Comesa online market. During the workshop, it was proposed that DFTA starts with member states that were ready to pilot the DFTA instruments, roll out an awareness programme, conclude a payment gateway and operate through a practical approach such as entering into an arrangement with global e-markets. It was also agreed during the workshop that it was imperative for the Comesa region to ensure digital delivery of e-commerce, digital transactions and digital payments. DFTA will require both technological and legal innovations especially in the fields of intellectual property, competition, data privacy and protection, Cyber security and a whole range of other innovative laws. @thandyfeminine