Cde Cain Mathema Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Cain Mathema has directed Government departments in the province to present periodic reports on projects they are undertaking under President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s 100- day programme. Addressing heads of government departments and Rural District Councils chief executive officers in Bulawayo yesterday, Cde Mathema said there should be a paradigm shift in the way Government departments and councils operate. He said Government departments in the province should present to him programmes they have lined up under the Government 100- day plan. “The President wants each Ministry, in fact they have been asked and Ministers have reported to the President on their targets for the next 100 days. I want those targets as well. What has each head of Government department done?” said Cde Mathema. “What has each parastatal done to fulfil what the President wants? Let’s assist the man to achieve what he has been elected to do in those 100 days. Daily what reports do I get from any of the Government departments?” Cde Mathema said research will be key to the development of the province. “Let’s be scientific, let’s do research. Let us be people of today and assist Matabeleland North develop. When Matabeleland North is developing it means the whole of Zimbabwe is developing,” he said. Cde Mathema said Government departments should select programmes or projects that they are able to complete instead of working on numerous projects and fail to complete all of them. He said local authorities must shun bureaucracy. Cde Mathema challenged civil servants to be professional and not discriminate when providing services. Contributing to the discussion, Matabeleland North Provincial Medical Director Dr Nyasha Masuka said in the new dispensation, the culture of deploying individuals based on one’s political connections should come to an end. He said individuals who are seconded to jobs on political considerations were incompetent and a problem. Dr Masuku said when such individuals fail to perform it was difficult to discipline them. He said the political leadership should ensure that people get jobs based on merit. “We should move away from a culture of shefu (big people), untouchable individuals and everybody should be reminded that those employed should deliver to expectations,” said Dr Masuku. Matabeleland North Provincial Veterinary Officer Dr Polex Moyo said funding challenges were a limiting factor. “The limiting factor is money. We have got the human capital in Zimbabwe and we are exporting that, we have got the resources. It’s actually the utilisation of the money and its availability that can change things to our benefit,” said Dr Moyo. “The important thing is the budgeting process nationally. As the Provincial Development Committee (PDC) we don’t have a budget to run the PDC. We find ourselves unable to articulate things because there is no funding.” @nqotshili