 Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent MZILIKAZI Arts and Crafts Centre has been earmarked for the development of an arts hub and will soon be refurbished by the Ministry of Sport, Arts and Recreation as part of the Government’s 100 day action plan. This was said yesterday by the Minister of Sport, Arts and Recreation, Raymond Kazembe during the first day of his two-day familiarisation tour of the arts industry in the city. Today the minister will meet artistes at Bulawayo Polytech School of Hospitality from 9AM. During the tour Minister Kazembe also visited celebrated arts group Umkhathi Theatre Works at their Salukazi Arts Centre in Njube. He was treated to a dance piece from the award winning group, which Minister Kazembe watched and later on joined in much to the amusement of the delegation that accompanied him. Minister Kazembe then toured Isilwane Youth and Recreational Centre in Old Pumula where he met some peer educators and youths who were doing body building. After the tour Minister Kazembe said Mzilikazi Arts and Craft Centre, built by the Bulawayo City Council in 1963 under the then Native Department of African Administration, will soon be upgraded into an arts hub for the city. “As a ministry we would like to see the centre (Mzilikazi Arts and Crafts Centre) upgraded to an arts hub. Fortunately or coincidentally rather, it’s one of the areas we want to be working on in these 100 days. We want to spruce up here and there as we upgrade the centre,” said Minister Kazembe. He said his ministry was still identifying other arts and crafts centres around the country that will also be upgraded. Minister Kazembe said he was aware that there were some arts centres around the country that have closed down but would look at revamping them after the 100 days. “We will first attend to those that are functioning in the 100 days and thereafter work on those that have been closed,” said Minister Kazembe. The Minister also toured the National Gallery In Bulawayo and was hosted by its director Voti Thebe and curator Clifford Zulu. He was shown some art works in the various galleries and met resident artistes there. The Minister was accompanied on the tour by National arts Council of Zimbabwe director Elvis Mari, his deputy Nicholas Moyo, Bulawayo provincial Arts manager Charity Nyathi, Principal Director in the ministry, Dr Benson Dube,  the ministry’s principal director of culture, Reverend Paul Damasane and Bulawayo City Council officials.