Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter THE Primary and Secondary Education, Sport and Arts Parliamentary Portfolio committee has lined up consultative meetings with stakeholders countrywide starting today with the aim of gathering citizens’ views on the education system. The curriculum introduced under the then Minister, Dr Lazarus Dokora, sparked controversy as both teachers and pupils complained of its implementation without adequate training and resources. The consultations are meant to gather people’s views which will be used in correcting past errors in implementing the new curriculum as well as addressing other challenges facing the country’s education sector. An itinerary in possession of The Chronicle shows that the Portfolio committee, chaired by Bindura North legislator Kenneth Musanhi has been split into two teams to cover the whole country. Team A will cover Harare, Mashonaland West, Midlands, Bulawayo, Matabeleland South and Matabeleland North between today and Thursday. The second team will during the same period cover Mashonaland Central, Mashonaland East, Manicaland and Masvingo provinces. Today team A will meet stakeholders in Harare, Norton and Kadoma before winding up the day in Kwekwe at Rutendo Secondary and Tore Primary School. The team will spend the whole of tomorrow in Bulawayo where five meetings have been lined up at Entumbane High School, Milton Junior, Mpumelelo Primary, Petra High and Henry Louw. The Matabeleland South meetings have been scheduled for Minda High and Whitewater Primary in Matobo district on Wednesday before the team travels to Matabeleland North province. On Thursday, the first meeting will be at Chinotimba Primary in Victoria Falls before two more meetings are held at Lupote Primary and Detema Secondary in Hwange. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education is also carrying out advocacy meetings countrywide with the same purpose of gathering views of parents on the new curriculum. Acting Matabeleland North Provincial Education Director Mr Jabulani Mpofu said: “The Principal director Kwazanayi Nyanungo (Infant Education, Psychological Services and Special Needs Education) has been having meetings in Matabeleland North in Binga, Bubi, Hwange, Lupane, Tsholotsho and Umguza and tomorrow (today) he will be in Nkayi as we wrap the province before he goes to Matabeleland South for a similar exercise. “These are advocacy meetings where the Ministry is gathering people’s views to review the curriculum.” — @ncubeleon