Cde Kembo Mohadi THE President and First Secretary of Zanu-PF, Cde Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa appointed Cde Kembo Mohadi as Vice-President and Second Secretary of the ruling party in December last year. Retired General Constantino Guvheya Chiwenga was also appointed to the same position at the same time. In a statement issued on December 23, Presidential Press Secretary, Cde George Charamba said the appointments were with immediate effect. The President and First Secretary of the ruling Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front, Zanu-PF, Cde Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa has today made two senior Party appointments,” said Cde Charamba. “General Constantino Guvheya Dominic Nyikadzino Chiwenga (Rtd), as Vice-President and Second Secretary of the Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front (Zanu-PF). “Hon Kembo C D Mohadi, MP, as Vice-President and Second Secretary of the Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front (Zanu-PF). The appointments are with immediate effect.” The appointments were made following extensive consultations with the political, traditional, security arms and war veterans. Five names were raised from Matabeleland and those were Cdes Mohadi, Retired Colonel Tshinga Dube, Speaker of Parliament Advocate Jacob Mudenda and Cabinet Ministers Cdes Simon Khaya Moyo and Obert Mpofu. Five names were forwarded from Matabeleland for approval by the war veterans, the political leadership and senior traditional leaders. Cde Mohadi’s name came up tops, leading to his appointment by the President. Cde Mohadi was born on 15 November, 1949 in Beitbridge District, Matabeleland South Province. He did his Sub A up to Standard One in Beitbridge, including Mtetengwe Primary School, before proceeding to Gwanda Primary School for Standard 2. He attended boarding school up to Standard Six in Beitbridge  before proceeding to Manama High School in Gwanda for secondary education and then Goromonzi High School in   Mashonaland East where he was expelled while doingForm 3. Cde Mohadi joined the liberation struggle in the early 70s when he left the country for military training in Zambia via Botswana. He later went to Russia for further training and on his return was attested to a department within Zapu called Zimbabwe Intelligence  Services under the command of the late Cde Ethan Dube but was detained at Khami Maximum Prison in 1976 until his release at Independence in 1980. He was appointed Defence, Security and War Veterans’ Minister in November. He had served as the Minister of State for National Security in the President’s Office (2015 to 2017) and Minister of Home Affairs from 2002 to 2015.