 Prince Sunduzani, Business Reporter THERE is a need for tertiary institutions such as universities, colleges and their students to be responsive to technological revolution for them to effectively contribute to economic development. Sunday News editor Limukani Ncube said this on Friday on the sidelines of a Career Guidance Expo facilitated by Zimpapers at a local hotel. The Career Guidance Expo which was held simultaneously in Bulawayo, Harare, Gweru and Mutare, was meant to provide tertiary institutions a platform to interface with their prospective students. “We cannot bury our heads in the sand and ignore the technological advancement that is happening around us. So whatever we are doing as industries, institutions of higher learning need to be alive to it. We need to move with the technological revolution,” said Ncube. He said students need information to assist them to make informed decisions when choosing their careers hence Zimpapers’ decision to facilitate a Career Guidance Expo. Ncube stressed the importance of choosing the right career if one is to be effective in any given  field. “Students need to be given proper grounding so that they do not choose courses that are dead in the market as is the trend now. “So as Zimpapers, we want to give them a platform where they can make informed decisions and hence our idea of bringing these tertiary institutions under one roof to provide the required information,” he said. The different tertiary institutions that participated at the expo hailed the Zimpapers Group for facilitating the expo. National University of Science and Technology communications and marketing officer Mrs Lindiwe Nyoni said the expo provided a platform for tertiary institutions such as Nust to meet propsective students. “This is an important platform as it gives students many career choices,” she said. College of creative arts information and marketing officer Carol Dungeni said: “This platform gives us an opportunity to guide students in choosing their careers. — @PrinceNkosy102