 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIFA Southern Region has given newly promoted First Division teams up to the end of January to deposit a commitment fee of $1 000. Toronto FC and CIWU from the Zifa Bulawayo Division Two league as well as Motomoto and Lunda from Matabeleland North were promoted after coming tops in their leagues. Plumtree-based Mainline FC, who finished fourth in the Bulawayo Division Two League, took over the Bantu Rovers franchise after Ajax Hotspurs of Mpopoma, who finished third, declined the offer to take up Rovers’ slot. “In the past we’ve had teams coming in and failing to pay their affiliation fees so what we’ve done is that the newly promoted clubs have up to month-end to pay a commitment fee. Last year we had Motomoto being promoted from Matabeleland North and they asked to return to the Second Division citing financial challenges and that is why we’re saying they must pay at least $1 000. If any of these clubs fail to pay the commitment fee, we will replace them,” said Musa Mandaza, Zifa Southern Region chairman. Affiliation fees for newly promoted clubs is $2 500, while old teams including those that were relegated from the Premiership pay $2 000, which Mandaza says is the cheapest of the four regional leagues. The Southern Region welcomes back Hwange and Tsholotsho FC from the topflight. The two will start as favourites and will have to withstand pressure from sides like perennial campaigners ZPC Hwange, Talen Vision and Makomo, who finished the season strongly. Highlanders’ development side Bosso 90, army side Indlovu Iyanyathela, ambitious Casmyn, Black Boots and Zim Leopards are some of the sides to watch. Mandaza said ZRP Bulawayo and Chiwororo, who owe the league substantial amounts, have to clear their debts before being registered for the 2018 season. He declined to state how much the two owe, saying the region’s board member for finance Bryton Malandule is compiling the list of clubs’ arrears. Victoria Falls will this season have only one team, Mosi Rovers, following the relegation of Amagagasi and Victoria Falls Tigers. @ZililoR