Ashley Morgan Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter THE 2016/17 Miss Tourism Zimbabwe, Ashley Morgan says she is planning to open a modelling agency in Victoria Falls. The Victoria Falls-based Morgan, who graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce degree in Marketing last year, said she used part of her $20 000 prize money to open a salon at Moringa Shopping Centre in the resort town. Morgan said she will soon organise a joint official launch of the modelling agency and her Black Diamond Beauty salon which is already operating. “I invested part of my prize money into a salon and I am looking at starting a modelling agency here,” she said in an interview. Morgan said she realised a need for such an initiative in Victoria Falls and has been learning about the industry at Bulawayo’s Fingers Modelling Agency run by Mrs Sarah Mpofu-Sibanda. “I was still in school when I was crowned and now I have started developing myself. I noticed a gap in Victoria Falls and that there are girls who have talent but no opportunities are availed for them. I opened the hair salon in November and will be launching both soon,” said Morgan. She said it was her duty as a tourism ambassador to equip youths in the resort town. Morgan said she realised that everyone seemed obsessed with tourism hence the gap she has identified. “As a tourism ambassador I want to emphasise the need to develop domestic tourism and in December I sponsored some kids from Baobab Primary School to enjoy a helicopter flight and dinner, courtesy of Shearwater Adventures,” said Morgan. She said she wanted to facilitate the enjoyment of tourism especially by children. Morgan said she was grateful to Miss Tourism Zimbabwe organisers and will continue promoting tourism in the country. “It was was a short year for me but am glad I wasn’t affected in school as I graduated, won the accolade and left the college scandal-free,” said Morgan who was FastJet Magazine cover girl for August and September last year. She said she was also liaising with Carl Joshua Ncube, who is now based in Victoria Falls on how they can partner in developing youths. — @ncubeleon