Brendan Taylor BRENDAN Taylor signed a three-year Kolpak deal with Nottinghamshire following the conclusion of the 2015 World Cup. However, his return to Zimbabwe colours brings in a fresh whiff of air as a new management at the helm of affairs looks to resurrect the face of their country’s cricket. In an exclusive interview, Taylor speaks about his learnings from the stint in England and how he intends to pass it on to his teammates as they intend to escalate their game. He also expresses his love for cricket in the country and admitted that he always wanted to come back to play for Zimbabwe again. How is the atmosphere in the Zimbabwean dressing room? It is very positive, especially after the win against Sri Lanka and more so (after) coming from the defeat against Bangladesh, (it) put us in good stead. It is always nice to have a win under your belt. Was it a difficult decision to retire from national duty and sign a Kolpak Deal? It was always difficult to leave in the beginning and do my three years in England. But I always knew at the back of my mind that I wanted to return to Zimbabwean cricket. I am 31 years old now and still got some years left in me. But England helped me in many ways. I have just tried to return to Zimbabwe team and put into practice what I have learnt there. Hopefully, I can contribute in many ways. Wasn’t it more difficult as you were at the peak of your career when you signed the Kolpak deal, considering you had just scored two hundreds in the World Cup? To be honest, it was extremely difficult. Obviously I was in some good form and I always wanted to play international cricket. Like I said earlier, England really helped me as a player. Conditions are really difficult in terms of facing fast bowling and seam bowling, though not so much spin but that’s what I wanted to challenge myself. I worked with some great coaches with great facilities and six months of lot of cricket. Every day, there was travelling and training as well as playing and so certainly it was something different for me. I never wanted to completely give up Zimbabwe cricket and I always knew that I wanted to come back some day. So it has nothing to do with money. Like in most cases players opt to make such a move for financial stability? It has nothing to do with financial stability. I made more money in Zimbabwean cricket, so I really don’t know why people are saying that it was related with money. Do you feel (former President) Robert Mugabe’s exit also played a part as far as returning to Zimbabwe was concerned? I was coming back already and then he exited. I knew June last year that I was coming and it only came out in the newspaper September last year. If Mugabe was still there, I would still come back and play because that is not a problem for me. I was playing in a system when he was president and when he was not president it doesn’t matter to me, because I had made up my mind to return. It is nice to see people in the country are happy and hopefully there is some nice direction for them. There is job opportunity and country turns the economy around but in terms of playing for Zimbabwean cricket, I have got some good friends and spent some nice time and it’s good to be back there. Tatenda Taibu (chief selector) played a big role in changing your mind? He did in the beginning but at the end of the day, it was I who took the decision. I had really given a good thought on what I really wanted to do and achieve. So it was me, my agent and the managing director and chairman of Zimbabwean cricket that actually finalize everything. Tatenda got the going in the beginning but basically the negotiations finished with Heath Streak, managing director and chairman and that was it. Consistent selection policy will be the key ahead of the World Cup qualifier? I think it is important for Zimbabwe cricket to keep as many players around the system. With some exciting players coming through, in terms of helping them mature as players I think we have that balance between experience and youth. I think some of the guys in our team have played close to 200 ODIs and that can only help us qualify, and moving forward there is [a] lot to offer for every player. Do you feel your batting is your major strength? I still believe it’s our batting. If we can get back Sean Williams back in the team… he has lot to offer with the ball and bat. I think our batting gives us an edge but not to forget there is Kyle Jarvis and (Graeme) Cremer, both of who are bowling well. There is exciting prospect in [Blessing] Muzarabani. Do you feel you still don’t have any match-winning bowler? I think our match-winning bowler is Brian Vitori, and hopefully he returns. Obviously his action has been questioned but he is very close to pass his test and that will help us a lot if he is ready for the qualifiers because he got good pace and variation in his repertoire and can be quite dangerous against any opposition. He can swing the ball and he will be the main threat. And if Williams and Cremer can play well, it won’t be hard to put pressure on any opposition. What are Zimbabwe’s chances in the World Cup qualifier? Very good and I think we can beat any team at home. There will be West Indies while teams like Afghanistan and Ireland are always improving. So it will be a challenge. We know our conditions very well and we would certainly not give them a condition that will suit them and make it very difficult for them. I think preparation wise we did not play lot of cricket in last 4-5 months and now we have got lot of cricket leading up to the competition and we would get better with each games. I think we will be at our best before the qualifier. Do you feel Zimbabwe cricket is going on the right path? For the last two years, Zimbabwe cricket has really come back with a new managing director and chairman Taibu, who is giving a lot of emphasis on trying to develop the junior system and that is absolutely crucial for the growth of Zimbabwe cricket. Before that there was a little bit of worry for us as they got little bit neglected. Under-19 are struggling in the World Cup but with more guidance and investment, they can play a big part in Zimbabwe cricket. Do you think if the financial issues are taken care (of), you are likely to return even stronger? Sure. There are still some financial issues in terms of debts for Zimbabwean cricket that everyone knows about, but the new managing director and chairman are taking big strides to eradicate that moving forward. It’s a very crucial period for Zimbabwe cricket and that is why we are all back because we are very passionate about Zimbabwean cricket. There is still lot of things to do but I am sure the next few years (are) going to be very big for Zimbabwe cricket. — Cricbuzz