Thandeka Moyo, Health Reporter GOVERNMENT has raised $22 million through a levy imposed on airtime and most of the funds will be used to purchase medicines and other accessories for public health institutions. Responding to questions in Parliament last week, the Minister of Health and Child Care Dr David Parirenyatwa said the money was raised by collecting five cents from the sale of airtime recharge cards. “We have had a Health Levy Fund where we take five cents of every dollar to those who are using cellphones. So if you phone and your bill is a dollar, we take five cents from there and put it into Health Levy Fund,” he said. “To date, this has raised $22 million and we have taken up to $16 million to purchase drugs and other accessories. These are now mostly, at the national pharmaceutical company.” He said some of the medication was already being distributed countrywide. “I am quite certain that within the next few weeks, there will be a sizeable difference in terms of supply of medicines in our institutions. The challenge that we have is that we could have used more money but the constraint has been foreign currency allocation,” said Dr Parirenyatwa. He also said central hospitals have not been able to maintain acceptable availability levels for medicines due to funding challenges. “The boards explored solutions including establishment of private pharmacies operated by the hospitals, but this was abandoned due to the following reasons: poor staff attitudes, there was negative stakeholder perception of creating a shortage in the main hospital pharmacy while concentrating on the cash pharmacy,” said the Minister. Dr Parirenyatwa also raised concern over the continued smuggling of illegal drugs into the country. “Smuggling by its clandestine and criminal nature is difficult to detect and control. This problem transcends the mandate of a single Ministry and we jointly respond through Home Affairs, Justice, local authorities and civil society to curb the indiscipline that is targeting the core society, especially the young and therefore, the health of our nation,” he said. “However, the existing penalties have not proven to be sufficient deterrents to repeat or would-be offenders. “We have also supported initiatives to increase public awareness on the dangers of drug abuse and purchasing of medicines from unauthorised sources.” @thamamoe