 Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter THE Footballers Union of Zimbabwe (Fuz) training camp for Bulawayo-based out-of-contract players starts today at the Heath Streak Academy. The five-day training camp is meant to help out-of-contract players secure clubs following Fuz’s initiative to invite Premiership and First Division clubs to send their scouts to the camp. FUZ also wants to address the rampant abuse of drugs and alcohol by local players during this camp. Former national team winger Joel Luphahla, ex-Highlanders and national team defender Dazzy Kapenya will conduct the training camp. Fuz secretary-general Thomas Sweswe said they expected a huge turnout at the camp. “Preparations have gone well, everything is spot-on and we are ready for the start tomorrow (today). We started off well in Harare where we had over 80 players participating. We expect even more players in the Bulawayo camp,” Sweswe said. He said they had lined up speakers to talk about player management. “This programme is meant to help our players find opportunities. We will just prepare them for what to expect and have also invited clubs to come and search for talent. “What we’ve noticed is that at times a player has talent, but lacks discipline or understanding of some things and for that reason, we’re going to have presenters talking to the participants about such issues,” said Sweswe. High tempo training sessions have been designed to enhance physical abilities, develop and increase tactical and technical skills as well as to achieve the harmony necessary to perform at the highest level of football. The players will be offered a comprehensive training programme, which will conclude with a friendly match on the last day of the camp. The Harare camp saw coaches like Caps United’s Lloyd Chitembwe, Black Rhinos’ Herbert Maruwa, Harare City’s Mark Harrison and Dynamos’ Lloyd Mutasa pick up a few players from the event. Sweswe encouraged Southern Region-based Premiership and First Division clubs to support this cause by sending their technical teams to hunt for players at the training camp. @innocentskizoe