Madinda Ndlovu Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League clubs have accelerated activity in the transfer market as they seek to build formidable teams ahead of the 2018 season. The transfer window which is in full swing, closes on March 29. Not much activity is expected at Bulawayo giants Highlanders, who have opted to embark on a re-building exercise. Bosso are not holding trials this year and it’s highly unlikely that they will splash any cash on the transfer market. Bosso, who are now coached by their legendary former player Madinda Ndlovu and assisted by Mandla Mpofu, have reportedly promoted about 11 players from the Under-18s and developmental side Bosso 90. Senior players Erick Mudzingwa, Simon Munawa, Tendai Ngulube and Ralph Matema have all been shown the door. King Nadolo has left for South African National First Division side Witbank Spurs. Mudzingwa is being linked with a move to municipal side Bulawayo City while Ngulube could be headed to Chicken Inn. Dynamos have also offloaded a number of players and are expected to hold trials next Tuesday, as they aim to build a side that can challenge for the title. Carlos Rusere, King Nasama, Musa Madhiri, Takunda Sadiki and Thembinkosi Simango have all been released by DeMbare. New faces at the Harare giants include Marvelous Mukumba, Tatenda Dzumbunu, Raphael Manuvire, Jimmy Tigere and James Marufu. Blessing Moyo also makes a return following an unsuccessful stint in South Africa. Cameroonian Striker Christian Epoupa is also back at the club after suffering an injury while on trial in South Africa. Champions FC Platinum have been the busiest club in the market as coach Norman Mapeza bolstered his squad for the Caf Champions League. Although they failed to secure the services of midfielder Liberty Chakoroma from Ngezi Platinum Stars and lost Nqobizitha Masuku to the Zambian Premiership, the Zvishavane side acquired former Highlanders’ midfielder Rahman Kutsanzira, Bantu Rovers’ Nigel Papius and Farai Madhanhanga from Harare City. Big defender Lawrence Mhlanga, who spent the entire 2017 season sidelined by a contractual dispute involving Chicken Inn, will now bounce back into action with FC Platinum. Jameson Mukombwe also joins the champions on loan from army side Black Rhinos. Mapeza also revealed his admiration for the foreign duo of Zambian forward Shadreck Mayembe and Cameroonian Albert Eonde, whom he could add to the squad. Chicken Inn, who have re-united with their 2015 title winning coach Joey Antipas, have retained the majority of their squad. They have recalled some players from loan spells for assessment, among them striker Adrian Banana, who was with 2018 Premiership debutants Bulawayo Chiefs. Joe Nyabinde from Shabanie Mine and defender Kudzai Chideu, who was at How Mine last season, are also trying their luck with the Gamecocks. Tsholotsho’s roving left-back Xolani Ndlovu is also on the former champions’ radar. Caps United are also on a rebuilding exercise after a number of their senior players left in search of greener pastures. Last season’s top goal scorer Dominic Chungwa joined Polokwane City in the Absa Premiership while big goalkeeper Edmore Sibanda was signed by  South African National First Division side Witbank Spurs. Midfielders Moses Muchenje and Devon Chafa whose contracts expired last December, are on trials with Egyptian sides. Reports suggest that the Green machine’s former striker Simba Nhivi could return to the club after a short stint with Tanzania outfit Singida United, who dropped all their Zimbabwean players. @innocentskizoe