 Nyaradzo Bakari, Chronicle Reporter A MAN from Bulawayo’s Montrose suburb has been sentenced to four years in prison for defrauding a home-seeker of $25 000 after selling a house that did not belong to him. Bradely Brandt (33) masqueraded as Mr Charles Wasterfall Vicky, the owner of a house in Bellevue suburb and sold it to Mr Bvumazvipere Siwawa. Brandt forged Mr Vicky’s National identity card (ID) and hired a bogus lawyer to represent him. He was convicted on his own plea by Bulawayo magistrate Ms Sthembiso Ncube last Friday. Ms Ncube sentenced him to four years imprisonment, two of which were conditionally suspended. “Accused is hereby sentenced to 48 months in prison. Nine months are suspended on condition that the accused is not within the next five years convicted of a case of dishonesty. The other 15 months are suspended on condition that the accused restitutes the complainant through the clerk of court a sum of $23 751 on or before February 28,” said the magistrate. Brandt will therefore serve an effective two years in jail. Prosecuting, Mr Alfonce Makonese said Brandt forged Mr Vicky’s particulars and the title deeds of the house, which he sold to Mr Siwawa for $25 000 in June last year. “Sometime in May complainant was advised that house number 33 Balfour Road, Bellevue was for sale. He learnt that the house belonged to Mr Vicky. On June 26, complainant received a call from Frank Matare and arranged a meeting at Shenje and Company law firm where the accused introduced himself as Mr Vicky. He also introduced one Mr Tungamirai Nyengera as his lawyer,” he said. “The accused produced an ID with his face and Mr Vicky’s particulars. He presented a copy of title deeds of the house and they drafted an agreement of sale. The complainant paid $25 000 cash as part payment for the said property.” He said the two agreed to meet at the house with their witnesses but Brandt did not turn up and his phone was not reachable. Mr Siwawa found people renovating the house and he learnt that the house was now owned by Mr Absolom Mukahiwa. The prosecutor said a report was made to the police leading to Brandt’s arrest and only $1 249 was recovered.—@NyarieBakie