Nicholas Singo Mehluli Sibanda, Senior Sports Reporter BULAWAYO venues to be used for the International Cricket Council World Cup Qualifier are taking shape with renovations set to be completed next month. Nicholas Singo, the Bulawayo local organising committee chairman said the two venues, Queens Sports Club and Bulawayo Athletic Club, have had their fields scarified. Buildings at Queens are also being painted while work will soon start on changing rooms at BAC with a grass embankment already planted. “So far we have scarified fields at Queens and BAC; what is left are renovations of buildings. At Queens we have already started painting and we hope to move to BAC this week,” Singo said. In terms of fans’ sitting areas at Queens, a local company, Pump and Steel, have sponsored renovations for the stand close to the scoreboard. At BAC, fans will occupy the grass embankment while mobile stands will be secured from schools. “At Queens, Pump and Steel have sponsored renovations to one of the stands; they are fixing the sitting area and shed. When it comes to BAC, we have to put a wall by the grass embankment, we are looking at getting mobile stands from schools for 1 000 people. All the work must be completed by February 15, two and half weeks before the main tournament starts. The Singo chaired LOC, made up of experts from various fields, is already meeting on a weekly basis to ensure that Bulawayo delivers a perfect tournament for matches to be played in the city. Bulawayo will be hosting Group B fixtures featuring Zimbabwe, Afghanistan, Scotland, Hong Kong and runners-up from the World Cricket League Division Two, who will only be known after February 15. The biggest match of the Qualifier in the city is the clash between Zimbabwe and Afghanistan at Queens Sports Club on March 6. Group A is made up of West Indies, Ireland, Netherlands, Papua New Guinea as well as the World Cricket League Division Two League champions. Fixtures for this pool are scheduled for Harare Sports Club and Old Hararians. Kwekwe Sports Club will be used for the play-off matches. — @Mdawini_29