Nation Dube Tobias Mandoreba in Hwange RETURNING Hwange coach Nation Dube has called for teamwork and unity of purpose if the coalminers are to make a quick return to the Premiership. Hwange, Tsholotsho, Harare City and Bantu Rovers were relegated from the topflight league at the end of the 2017 season. “The task at hand will be made a lot easier if there is team work and unity of purpose by everyone associated with this great club.  Hwange has a big history in the nation’s football and it will make me happy to ensure they quickly bounce back to topflight football. I will obviously make some adjustments on the squad at my disposal so that we are competent and make the community happy again,” said Dube just before yesterday morning’s training session. Dube’s assistants Brian Njovu and Never Munkuli are also confident of a fruitful year ahead. “I am happy to be back ‘home’ after a short rest at Makomo FC and I believe we can produce the desired results with my colleagues,” said Njovu. The youthful Munkuli said: “It’s an honour to work with my seniors Nation and Brian. I will give it my best shot to achieve the feat desired by all stakeholders in Hwange.” Dube and his lieutenants will be happy that 19 players are still contracted to the club and look set to be the mainstay of the campaign in the Zifa Southern Region Division One league. These include Taimon Mvula, Crispen Dickson, Shepherd Gadzikwa, Tendai Mate, Delic Murimba, Crybert Muvuti, Andrew Tshuma and Morestuff Ncube. Murimba is reported to have left for Triangle, but Hwange insist he is their player and still has a running contract that expires next year. Club sources said processes were underway to re-engage out of contract players, who include Melvin Mekiwa, Nomore Chinyerere, Justine Kaunda, Obert Moyo, Collen Muleya, Gilbert Zulu, Craven Banda and Wilfred Munorwei. Only five players, goalkeeper Collen Phiri, Admire Banda, Oscar Lungu, Elvis Meleka and Morebrain Joseph have sought clearance to leave the club. Dube and Njovu will be hoping to repeat their feat of 2008 when they steered Chipangano back to the Premier Soccer League after the miners had been demoted at the end of 2007 season. Hwange were previously relegated in 1982, 1985 and 1987, but they have never stayed beyond one season in Division One. @tobymandox