President Filipe Nyusi Prosper Ndlovu in Maputo, Mozambique MOZAMBIQUE President Filipe Nyusi yesterday expressed confidence in President Mnangagwa’s ability to turn around Zimbabwe’s economy. Addressing delegates during a luncheon he hosted for President Mnangagwa at the Mozambican state house here, President Nyusi, who was accompanied by former Mozambique presidents Cdes Joaquim Chissano and Amando Guebuza, also pledged to continue supporting Harare in implementing development programmes. He congratulated Zimbabweans for the peaceful political transition following the resignation of former President Mugabe two months ago. President Mnangagwa assumed power following a peaceful process that saw him being nominated by Zanu-PF to lead the party and country after the Zimbabwe Defence Forces had launched Operation Restore Legacy that was endorsed by Zimbabweans from across the political divide as well as the regional and international community. “I extend congratulations on your leadership. Zimbabweans have confidence in you and my government is willing to work with you to transform our economies towards sustainable growth,” said President Nyusi who described Cde Mnangagwa as a freedom fighter whom he met during the liberation struggle. He said President Mnangagwa’s visit demonstrates the cordial relations between the two states and renewed commitment to bilateral ties. Zimbabwe and Mozambique worked closely to dislodge foreign domination to usher in majority rule in the two countries. “It gives me great honour and joy to address my brother (Mnangagwa) on his first visit to Mozambique after taking over as president in Zimbabwe. On behalf of Mozambican people and my own behalf we wish you the best,” said President Nyusi. “Zimbabwe and Mozambique enjoy excellent relations. The two states are natural allies and have been united in the struggle against foreign domination.” He said the visit was a good platform to discuss mutual challenges and opportunities and called for increased trade ties and partnerships in infrastructure projects. President Nyusi said Mozambique was a key partner in development projects such as energy, rail and road infrastructure and urged Zimbabweans to also invest in his country. He said Mozambique will continue to work closely with Zimbabwe in preserving regional peace, security and unity.