Dr Killer Zivhu Harare Bureau President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s administration has been commended by rural district councils for moving fast to come up with programmes that will quickly change lives of the rural folk. Association of Rural District Councils (ARDC) president Dr Killer Zivhu yesterday said the quick intervention in addressing the situation facing rural councils paved way for the empowerment of marginalised communities. He singled out Environment, Water and Climate Minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri, Transport and Infrastructural Development Minister Joram Gumbo and Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister July Moyo as having contributed more to the improvement of rural areas. “These Ministers were told by President Mnangagwa to hit the ground running but our observation as people residing in the rural areas is that they exceeded expectations by hitting the ground flying,” said Dr Zivhu. “We are grateful for the programmes they have come up with which will change lives in the rural areas forever.” Dr Zivhu commended Minister Muchinguri-Kashiri for indicating that Government would build at least four weirs in each constituency and drill boreholes. “This is the first of its kind considering the effects of climate change, especially in rural areas,” he said. “The weirs are important to enhance irrigation, which is the way to go for improving food security in rural areas. “People in the rural areas will now be able to participate in Command Agriculture and Command Fisheries because of these water bodies.” Dr Zivhu said there were many other dams lying idle in rural areas that Minister Muchinguri-Kashiri’s ministry could consider reviving for irrigation purposes. He said Minister Gumbo’s directive to the Zimbabwe National Roads Administration (Zinara) to avail at least $500 000 to each rural district council for roads rehabilitation was important. “We also welcome the fact that Minister Gumbo has said they are increasing the budget in terms of capacitating the District Development Fund so that it helps in the rehabilitation of roads and construction of new ones,” said Dr Zivhu. “We are going to see a lot of change in the lives of rural people who will be able to easily access markets and other services because of these roads.” Dr Zivhu said it was most welcome that Minister Moyo ensured Government returned the collection of land levies to rural district councils. “This shows that the Minister knows, without doubt, that councils belong to the people who require top notch service,” he said. “With this move, rural councils will have more revenue which they will plough back into developing their communities.” Dr Zivhu said the ARDC executive will hold a meeting on Monday next week to strategise on the mobilisation of people to register as voters following the extension of the Biometric Voter Registration. “We have been doing the mobilisation for the registration process already, but now that the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission has extended the registration, we want to ensure that all those who had not registered do so,” he said. “We have been taking advantage of our lower level structure, which allows us to be on the ground every time with the people. We have been mobilising them to register as voters and eventually vote for President Mnangagwa and ruling party candidates for council and Parliament.” Dr Zivhu said President Mnangagwa and Zanu-PF were poised for a resounding victory in rural areas in elections this year following the mobilisation of voters by the councillors, and the goodwill atmosphere created by the new Government. 