 Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter FIVE crew members of Nice Guy Bus Service who allegedly kidnapped and beat up a rival company’s team before damaging the bus in a fight over passengers, were yesterday released on $100 bail each. Lupane magistrate Mr Ndumo Masuku ordered Dumisani Ndlovu (37), Mthokozisi Ncube (38), Ntuthuko Ndlovu (34), Given Sibanda (29) and Xolani Tshuma (26), all from Bulawayo, to report at Luveve Police Station once a week and not to interfere with witnesses until finalisation of the case. The five, who are being represented by Mr Costa Dube, will be back in court on February 8. Prosecuting, Mr Sanders Sibanda said the quintet is being charged with kidnapping or alternatively unlawful detention with aggravated intent and malicious damage to property. “On January 7 at 9PM while at Lusulu in Binga, there was a misunderstanding between the two bus companies’ crews over passengers. A Nice Guy Bus driver (Ntuthuko Ndlovu) was beaten up by passengers and he phoned their Bulawayo office to report the incident,” said Mr Sibanda. He said the accused intercepted the Maplanka Bus crew near St Luke’s on the following day at 1PM. “On the following day at 1pm, a Toyota Quantum driven by Xolani Tshuma and carrying the accused persons intercepted the bus at St Luke’s and suddenly stopped in the middle of the road in front of a Maplanka Bus. Thabisani Nyoni who was driving the bus stopped to avoid a collision as the road had been blocked,” said the prosecutor. The court was told that the accused used an iron rod, hoe handles and an axe to assault the two complainants Mr Task Sibanda (conductor) and Mr Nyoni who are employed by Maplanka Bus Company. They also allegedly damaged the bus’ front windscreen, front lights, windows and also used an axe to deflate three tyres. The accused were arrested after police intercepted them about 28km from St Luke’s in the direction of Victoria Falls. An iron rod, hoe handles and axe were recovered from the attack vehicle. Both companies are fighting to control the Bulawayo-Lusulu route and the fights have been going on in Bulawayo and along the road, the court heard. Two other cases are pending, one in Bulawayo where Mr Sibanda (Maplanka conductor) was allegedly stabbed nine times with a screw driver at Entumbane Bus terminus and another one in Lusulu where the Maplanka crew members are the accused. @ncubeleon