Mkhululi Ncube/Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Reporters CHARLES ‘Mdolomba’ Ndebele of Ndolwane Super Sounds Amangwe Production, says he is only in the music industry out of passion and love of his fans, not for money. His latest release, Umhlola, his third solo project since he separated with Martin Sibanda, was launched in December last year. Ndebele said gone are the days when he could rely on album sales for income. “Truly speaking I’m now recording for the passion I have for music; otherwise it’s now useless financially. My loyal fans also continue to urge me to record but when I compare when I started recording and now it is just not beneficial,” he said. The 51-year-old father of seven (five girls and two boys) started music when he was in Grade Seven, playing the banjo. The musician, who speaks with a lot of passion about his music, said he earns his living outside music in South Africa to support his family. Turning to his seven track album, Umhlola (bad omen), Ndebele said the title track was inspired by a South African publication which wrote a story that he had died. “I was shocked to read the story that I had died. I tried to engage the publication to retract the story but they did not entertain me. So as a musician the only platform I have for telling my own story is through music hence the song Umhlola, ” he said. On Umuntu Yena, Ndebele laments people who talk ill about others and are jealous of their success. On Mmaladzi, a Kalanga word for “a divisive person” Ndebele challenges communities to be united while on Malume he thanks his uncle for the way he raised him, saying it prepared him for life and contributed to his success. Bekezela is a gospel song which is an appeal to friends to pray for him as he is failing to get answers to problems in life. In the song he collaborates with Dubia Masters, a band made up of former Ndolwane Super Sounds guitarists. The last track, Bosso (Emagumeni) is dedicated to Highlanders Football Club. Its popularity hinges on the success of the team should the youthful project being set up by new coach Madinda Ndlovu bear fruit early. Ndebele says he learns a lot from other musicians like the late Leonard Dembo whom he says was a composer par excellence. “When we started as musicians it was not easy. We’d send our demos to studios who would listen and decide if the demo was good or bad. Many times we were sent back to work on our songs. “Ask musicians like Nicholas Zakaria, Alick Macheso and Chase Skuza, they’ll tell you that it was hard then,” he said. On Umhlola, the soft-spoken Ndebele deviates from his slow and calm tempo on his last two projects. “People want to listen to music and dance at the same time. On this album if you compare with the past ones there’s more pace as I tried to accommodate those who want to dance. I didn’t however compromise on the message.” He said he will embark on a national tour next month with Zakaria to promote the album. Ndebele’s first recording was in 1993 with the group The Big Four which was made up of him, Madalaboy and the now late Abson Ndebele and Develop Moyo. He later became a vital cog of arguably the most popular rhumba band from Matabeleland South, Ndolwane Super Sounds with his late cousin Abson and Martin Sibanda after the demise of musicians like Ndux Malax and Solomon Skuza.