Elvis Moyo Gilbert Munetsi, Sports Correspondent REIGNING World Boxing Federation heavyweight champion Elvis “The Bulawayo Bomber’’ Moyo has pegged a coffee-table life for his Congolese opponent when the two square off in the main bout of a tournament dubbed “New Dawn’’ set for the City Sports Centre on January 26.  Five months ago, Moyo made the same promise at a pre-match press conference with his last opponent, Kenyan Bernard Ade, and his prophecy came to pass. The South African-based pugilist who with a ((W6-KO3; L5; D2) record was on August 25, 2017 afforded the first opportunity to fight before a home crowd at the HICC. Yesterday the Bomber was upbeat about the impending bout, predicting that the new rival, Kilola Lubika Didier – alias Knife – would be very fortunate to go beyond the sixth round. The Zimbabwean spoke to The Herald from Johannesburg and was quick to thank the promoters, Kala Koda, for throwing him a lifeline and rescuing his boxing career that had since forced him to look up to the code of Mixed Marshall Arts. ‘’It’s one of those defence title fights where I’m sure I won’t have any form of trouble. In fact, I don’t see any fighter making me break a sweat within the confines of the ring. “Fighting in the MMA has improved my focus because there I have had to worry about different types of attacks which are 10 times more dangerous than in boxing. “But like all my fights, I will take ‘Knife’ very seriously until I’m done with him and have knocked him out cold. However, just like the last opponent I will wish him to go to as far 4-6 rounds but if you witnessed how hard I hit, chances are that he will come out of it severely bruised. “I will not lose focus on the fact that this is a fight which will lead me to an Austrian opponent who I pray is not going to pull out like the English opponent I was supposed to fight last November… I will keep working hard work in the ring hopping my ultimate dream is fulfilled, namely to be the biggest name in the heavyweight division in Africa and beyond.’’ Though he is currently ranked Number 1 in Zimbabwe, his placing on position 181 out of 872 heavyweights in the world means that Moyo certainly has to pull up his sleeve to achieve his desired goal. Meanwhile, a glean at Didier’s record (W6; L2; D0) proves the match-maker’s aim to give spectators real value for their money. The Congolese who is also based in South Africa had a shot at the African Boxing Union title (which he lost), last year but went on to win three contests on the trot during the same year.  