 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter SOUTH Africa-based Kalakoda Promotions plan to host the second leg of the inter-continental Africa versus United Kingdom boxing bill in Zimbabwe in April after being charmed by the local crowd and facilities. Kalakoda Promotions in partnership with Kwese Sport held their second event inside six months in Zimbabwe on Friday at the City Sports Centre in Harare, attracting about 3 000 spectators. The main bout saw South Africa-based Zimbabwean boxer Elvis Moyo defending his World Boxing Federation (WBF) All-Africa heavyweight title against Congolese Kilola Lubika Knife Didier. Moyo won on points after 10 rounds. Kalakoda’s first tournament in Harare was last year in August and it attracted a crowd of 2 000. Jeremy Bean, Kalakoda Promotions spokesperson, said plans are underway to bring Africa’s top five boxers to Harare where they will fight against UK pugilists in April. “In November last year we had the first leg of the UK versus Africa bill in Manchester and it was great. We’re planning to have the second leg here in Zimbabwe on the last Friday of April. This will be a fight that will be appealing to the whole continent and Zimbabwe being home to our partners Econet and Kwese, we see it as a destination of choice. The Africa versus UK bill will put Zimbabwe’s boxing on the map,” said Bean. “The other thing we are going to do when we come for the April bill is to continue with our skills transfer programme so that Zimbabwe benefits from hosting our competitions,” he said. Before the Moyo-Didier fight, Kalakoda brought WBF president Howard Goldberg to Harare where he officiated at a coaching clinic focusing on refereeing and judging. Meanwhile, in supporting bouts, Zimbabwe’s bantamweight star boxer Tinashe “Chairman” Madziwane knocked out Aubrey Masamba of Malawi in the third round before Wesley “White Lion” McDade wowed the crowd with some perfect combinations in another second round knockout victory over Edmos Takawira. South Africa-based Zimbabwean bantamweight boxer Tapiwa Tembo also won via TKO against Swedi Mohamed of Tanzania in another exciting bout. Middleweight boxer Enock Msambudzi won on points against fellow Zimbabwean Thembani Mhlanga in the last fight of the night. Female boxing pioneer Monalisa Sibanda returned to the ring in style with a points’ victory over Eneless Nkhahwathi of Malawi in a super lightweight non-title fight. @ZililoR