The Chronicle 11:06 – President Mnangagwa has arrived in the company of First Lady Auxillia Mnangagwa and the national anthem is underway to mark official commencement of the conference business. 10:56 – More than 5000 delegates are already seated to hear President Mnangagwa’s key note address. Clad in Zanu-PF colours, emblazoned with President Mnangagwa’s pictures, the delegates are being entertained by scintillating revolutionary songs by one of the Zanu-PF youths Tirimusango Hwenje. PREAMBLE PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa is today expected to officially open the 17th Zanu-PF Annual National People’s Conference in Esigodini, Matabeleland South. Delegates are already seated at Mzingwane High School, the conference venue. Zanu-PF National Chairperson Cde Oppah Muchinguri yesterday said the conference was critical for introspection and mapping the way forward for the country’s economic recovery. “We’re excited to be in Matabeleland South during this time of the year after an eventful year. It’s important that we’re meeting to introspect, share ideas, look at our strengths and our weaknesses and come up with resolutions as well as plan for the next four years. “We had our primary elections where people were shaken a bit and this is the time to forget the past and strengthen the party as well as celebrate our victory in the harmonised elections,” she said. Cde Muchinguri said the party continues to have a clear message to the people to remain united as the country re-engages with the outside world in the drive to improve the country’s economy. “This forum is expected to address a number of issues, which include corruption, economic development, creating jobs for our youths and our women. We’re introspecting. Where we’ve failed, we will correct and chart the way forward. “It’s critical for us to review and re-evaluate the wok that we’ve done as the ruling party. The people of Zimbabwe are expecting positive results from the party and we’re promising not to let them down,” she said. Cde Muchinguri said since the conference was being held during the agricultural season, the Ministry of Lands, Agriculture and Rural Resettlement would give reports on where the country stands in regards to the sector. STAY WITH US FOR LIVE UPDATES…