The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls
ZIMBABWE’s largest financial group, CBZ Holdings, has launched yet another POS service facility that can use all types of cards targeting international visitors. Lately, there were different machines for international credit cards, Visa cards, Nostro cards and Zimswitch cards. After coming up with a portable mobile Point of Sale terminal, Kleva POS payment solution for all sole traders and small businesses recently, CBZ has now introduced a new POS and e-commerce facility. The facility was launched last Thursday at a dinner in Victoria Falls. Speaking at the launch, CBZ managing director Mr Peter Zimunya said the bank was continuously reviewing and improving its digital channels to increase value. “Today we are launching cutting edge technology driven solutions that bring convenience to both merchants and customers as we introduce new POS and e-commerce platforms in this strategic market. We believe the product will meet unique needs of Victoria Falls market and its mix of foreign and local cards,” he said. The new POS and e-commerce facility can use all cards such as international credit cards, Visa card, Nostro and RTGS payments that can be done anywhere as long there is internet connection. The facility is a product of a partnership with Iveri Technologies. It allows cardholders from any part of the world to pay for goods and services online from the comfort of their homes via internet. The financial institution said the launch shows that the bank values the Victoria Falls market. The new product is expected to bring convenience to tourists as they can make all their payments on the go and prior to visiting Zimbabwe. Locals will also benefit as they can make transactions without visiting the banking hall. “The platform offers 3D security, which is the highest level of security on e-commerce platforms and processes all major card associations as it has multiple connections, EMV compliant, fast and efficient,” Mr Zimunya added. It will also facilitate payment for those without websites. — @ncubeleon