The Chronicle Yemurai Ushamba, Court Reporter
A 53-YEAR-OLD man from Bulawayo has appeared in court for allegedly raping his neighbour’s four-year-old daughter after he found her playing alone outside his house. The man, a Pumula South suburb resident allegedly raped the minor twice in his bedroom. The man who cannot be named to protect the identity of the minor allegedly grabbed the girl while she was playing outside his house and took her inside before raping her. The accused person was not asked to plead to rape charges when he appeared before Western Commonage magistrate Mr Lungile Ncube. Mr Ncube remanded him in custody to January 4 and advised him to apply for bail at the High Court. The State led by Mr Kenneth Shava alleges that on December 17 during the day, the girl was playing alone outside the man’s house. “He lifted her and took her into his house. While inside his bedroom he removed her trousers and pant and molested her once. He then lifted the girl and put her on the bed and again sexually abused her once,” said Mr Shava. The girl was medically examined and a medical report will be used as exhibit in court. Late last month, police in Bulawayo said they were concerned by the increase in cases of minors being raped in the city. “Police in Bulawayo have noted with concern the increase in rape cases involving juveniles. We are receiving about 14 cases of rape a week and most of them are of juveniles raped by relatives. Sadly parents are concealing most of the cases especially if they involve a relative or their lovers. In so doing they are violating a section of the Child Protection and Adoption Act,” Bulawayo acting police spokesperson Inspector Abednico Ncube said. “As police we’re worried about cases of sexual abuse and we’re appealing to members of the public to help combat the crime. We’re disappointed that we’ve individuals who still believe that juvenile sex cures certain ailments. Juveniles are being raped by close relatives such as uncles, cousins, their mothers’ lovers and tenants.” Insp Ncube urged parents and guardians to promptly report sexual abuse cases to the police even in cases where relatives are the culprits.