The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter
INLINE Academy’s 21 year-old forward, Peacemore Kanende, has been named the 2018 Thembalethu Southern Region Women’s League Soccer Star of Year after leading her team to the league title. Kanende, who is also the league’s top goal-scorer, was in decent form this season netting a staggering 20 goals. The Inline Academy forward was named the winner of region’s prestigious award by the Zifa Southern Region in Bulawayo on Thursday. Kanende described the feeling as extraordinary after being named the best player and thanked her teammates for supporting her. “Without my teammates I wouldn’t have made it and I’m so happy that we managed to win as a team. Teamwork played an important role in ensuring that I score 20 goals because everything was made easier as a result of the support from the technical staff,” said Kanende. She said her dream is to play abroad and continue representing the Mighty Warriors. “I would like to get a new challenge and play in other countries. My inspiration is Banyana Banyana’s Thembi ‘Pikinini’ Kgatlana as she has achieved a lot through football including playing playing abroad,” Kanende said. Meanwhile, the Thembalethu Foundation, who sponsor the league will, in the coming days announce the date to hold an award ceremony to award those who fared well during the tournament. Talented New Orleans player, Roselyn Takawira, who has had a stellar perfomance for the old side, was voted number two behind Kanende while Irene Ndlovu managed to come third despite her team, Sobukhazi anchoring the table. The goalkeeper of the season accolade was shared by Faith Ncube and Noxolo Kona from Magwegwe Stars and Inline Academy respectively.
Southern Region Women’s Soccer Stars of the Year List
Faith Ncube (Magwegwe Stars); Primrose Ngwenya (Magwegwe); Noxolo Kona, Peacemore Kanende (Inline Academy); Sithulisiwe Ndlovu (ZRP Bulawayo); ); Roselyn Takawira, Prisca Khumalo (New Orleans); Irene Ndlovu (Sobukhazi); Zanele Ndlovu (Byo Poly); Sandra Majika (Royals); Melissa Nsingo (BlackBoots) Top goal scorer: Peacemore Kanende (20) Player of the Year: Peacemore Kanende 1st Runner up: Roselyn Takawira 2nd: Irene Ndlovu Most Outstanding: Peacemore Kanende Goalkeeper of The Season: Faith Ncube and Noxolo Kona Most Promising: Irene Ndlovu Coach of the Year: Boga Ndebele
— @DecoDecent2