The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent
ANOTHER cholera case has been recorded in Gwanda, Matabeleland South Province bringing the number of cases recorded this week to two. In an interview, Matabeleland South Provincial Medical Director, Dr Rudo Chikodzore, confirmed the latest case which was recorded on Wednesday at the Gwanda Provincial Hospital. The first cholera case was recorded on Tuesday and the patient is a tout plying the Bulawayo-Gwanda route, but comes from Zhukwe area in Gwanda. Dr Chikodzore said investigations are underway to ascertain the source of the cases. “I can confirm that we have recorded a second case of cholera this week. This time it’s a female patient from Gwanda Town. She started displaying symptoms of cholera and was admitted at the Gwanda Provincial Hospital on Wednesday. “A rapid diagnostic test came out positive and we are now awaiting microscopy results to further confirm the results. “A rapid response team is on the ground to try and identify the source of the disease and contain in. We are also carrying out investigations to try and establish whether this patient might have visited one of the affected areas or she got into contact with affected people,” she said. Dr Chikodzore said both cholera patients were in a stable condition and were being closely monitored. “We suspected that these cases that we have recorded could have been imported as they are isolated cases. We doubt that the source could be local. However, we are on high alert for any other cases,” she said. Dr Chikodzore said so far all is under control as the province and its districts are on alert for any possible cases of cholera. “We have been on standby ever since the recent cholera outbreak which was declared a national disaster. Even after the recent cholera cases which have been reported in Mount Darwin, we have remained on high alert,” she said. Dr Chikodzore said they were going to set up cholera treatment camps at the venue of this year’s annual Zanu-PF National People’s Conference to be held in Esigodini next week. She urged members of the public to exercise good personal hygiene at all times to prevent cases of cholera. — @DubeMatutu