The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent
GOVERNMENT should consider extending its Command Housing Scheme to rural areas where most people are building sub-standard housing structures which are easily destroyed by hailstorms and floods. In an interview yesterday, Civil Protection Unit (CPU) director Mr Nathan Nkomo said most cases involving damage to infrastructure the department handles occur in rural areas. Mr Nkomo said it is not possible for the CPU to avert some disasters in most rural areas due to poor infrastructure. “I’ve realised that the violent storms have been destroying quite a number of mud and pole houses, social amenities infrastructure, inclusive of schools and clinics and other related infrastructure. And you’ll find that most of the schools which are affected are mostly in rural areas because of poor maintenance,” said Mr Nkomo. He said Government should take a deliberate step to come up with a policy that prioritises maintenance of public infrastructure in rural areas. Mr Nkomo said Government should also roll out its Command Housing Scheme in rural areas where people are building weak structures. “When we look at the housing infrastructure in rural areas, the durability of the material used leaves a lot to be desired especially when you look at the areas of Muzarabani where some households were left homeless. You’ll find that the superstructure is completely razed to the grown while the thatch is intact which shows that the material used for the construction of such housing units is not durable,” said Mr Nkomo. “Again, it’s up to our sister department in the Public Works to ensure that they also come up with a robust rural housing programme which will target the provision of decent housing in rural areas. I think what is required is that even under their Command Housing that they look at that component because when we look at the level of vulnerability of people living in such types of dwelling units, it is very high.”
He said poor infrastructure was increasing the vulnerability of some communities. Mr Nkomo said his department cannot afford to deal with more damages to infrastructure as resources were still being channelled to outstanding repairs following destruction caused by Cyclone Dineo during the 2016/2017 rainy season. — @nqotshili.