The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
PARLIAMENTARIANS have commended the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development for setting aside $42,6 million for the e-Government project. They have since asked for the computerisation of Parliament building to improve efficiency in service delivery. Debating in Parliament the 2019 National Budget presented by the Minister of Finance and Economic Development Professor Mthuli Ncube, Zvimba North MP Marian Chombo said the computerisation of all Government systems will go a long way in facilitating the ease of doing business. Cde Chombo said Prof Ncube went all out to identify e-Government projects that are going to assist in the revival of the economy. She said for any meaningful development to take shape, the country has to invest in infrastructure development. “Our economy is endowed with natural resources which if well managed, the economy of Zimbabwe is going to take off very well. We need to computerise our systems and in that respect, the Minister of Finance and Economic Development identified e-Government projects that are going to be the bedrock of development and revival of the economy. “He has set aside $42,6 million to implement e-Government systems. These are going to assist to establish the national data centre, establish community information centres and maintain the Government systems. To that tune, he allocated $13 million to Zimra to improve the ASYCUDA (Automated System for Customs Data) system,” said Cde Chombo. “The ASYCUDA system has been set up to improve efficiency in tax collection and ease of doing business and it enables pre-clearance of goods and free movement of people at our ports. It also assists to plug in leakages, thereby curbing corruption. It also improves revenue collection and increases our tourism.” She also commended Prof Ncube for setting aside $1,7 million for the CADASTRAL system. The system will assist in addressing challenges and disputes in the mining sector. “Mining contributes a big chunk to the GDP and the CADASTRAL system, (an automated system used to show value of land, especially for taxation) is going to address and register the titles and rights, and enhance the security of tenure. It also assists in the registration of new licences. “There has been a problem with the Ministry of Mines and Mining Development, whereby most of the miners have these mines for speculative purposes. The CADASTRAL system is going to address the ‘use it or lose it’ policy,” she said. “These policies are before the Portfolio Committee on Mines and Mining Development and as they are addressing the Bill that was returned by the President in the Eighth Parliament, they’re going to address it using that CADASTRAL system.” Cde Chombo said there are many e-Government projects that were budgeted for in the 2019 budget. “We’ve seen that there is a budget set aside for schools labs, which is about $2 million. There are e-Government flagship projects with another $2 million and there is voice over internet which was budgeted for $12 million and the ICT budget was allocated about $82 million,” said Cde Chombo. – @pamelashumba1