The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls
A LOCAL Information Communication Technology (ICT) company, EduTech Zimbabwe, has partnered Government in equipping schools with top notch digital gadgets towards meeting the Transitional Stabilisation Programme (TSP) goals. EduTech provides interactive innovation solutions for schools and has set aside $73 000 to provide tablets, mobile scanners, data management and research software and projectors for 365 school administrators, inspectors and directors countrywide in the first phase. The initiative is meant to yield educational transformation as a key to socio-economic transformation and attainment of an upper middle income vision by year 2030. The second phase will cascade to school heads, teachers and pupils. The company’s chief executive, Mr Luke Musambasi, said this when he unveiled a package of devices during the recent National Association of Schools Inspectors and Directors (NASID) Conference that was held here. “We are partnering with NASID to capacitate their research centres and education administrators so they can administer data easily while facilitating research tools. “We’re moving with the TSP and as the private sector we have promised our President (Mnangagwa) that we’re going to take part in the programme hence we want each and every research centre for the provinces to be equipped with top range scanners and computers so that schools benefit more from these researches,” said Mr Musambasi. NASID is undertaking research to every province to find out critical gaps in the education sector and make recommendations to Government. Mr Musambasi said EduTech seeks to capacitate administrators with knowledge, which should in-turn capacitate the whole education sector and economy by bridging the information gap. “We’re targeting schools inspectors and directors as we unveil these packages as the first step towards bridging the ICT gap in the education fraternity. Rural teachers feel left out hence with these gadgets won’t need electricity to access information. “We’ve already started distributing in Harare where our company is based and we’re spreading to other areas giving the same level of knowledge like the Silicon Valley. If we’re going to target 365 schools inspectors and directors then we are talking of $73 000, which will go up when we expand to school heads and teachers,” said Mr Musambasi. Minister of Primary and Secondary Education Permanent Secretary, Mrs Tumisang Thabela, said Government was delighted to engage and work with private sector partners. – @ncubeleon