The Chronicle Leonard Ncube
THE wedding of Chronicle photographer Obey Sibanda was on Saturday illuminated by South Africa’s Afro-pop queens Platform One who had the large crowd on its feet. Sibanda tied the knot with Nomagugu Ncube at St Joseph’s Roman Catholic Church in Beitbridge before a reception at a separate venue in the border town. The couple had invited the group to spice up the occasion. Soon after a lunch break, as the bridal team made its way onto the stage, the bride and groom remained behind, leaving their guests baffled. As the guests were now getting worried, the MC for the day – Sifundo Ngwenya announced that the sensational Nani Ntengo and her team of Sonto Dladla and Nelly Gwala-Jele were in the house to accompany the bride and groom. Upon hearing this, people could be seen checking every direction trying to locate the Isencane hit-makers. Just as people thought it was a jest, Ntengo and crew emerged from a blind side at the same time that the DJ dropped the Isencane tune. The crowd could not contain their excitement and joined in on the fun, jostling to take pictures as Platform One led the bride and groom to the stage. MC Ngwenya had to later restrain the crowd from taking pictures in an effort to afford everyone an opportunity to see the group in action. The nimble footed Ntengo and crew who rose to fame about two decades ago showed that they still had the touch as they serenaded the crowd with songs Wovala Emnyango and Ithemba Lami among others. After the performance, the trio proceeded to Bulawayo where they were billed to perform at another wedding on Saturday evening. They said they will be in the country for over a week as they are booked to perform at a number of weddings in Bulawayo and Nkayi. Platform One has spiced up a number of high profile weddings in the country including that of Sandra Ndebele in 2011. Speaking after their performance, Ntengo said: “We’re so happy that people still remember and love us. We’re in Zimbabwe for a week or two where we’re set to perform at about six weddings,” she said. Platform One has not been active in the studio in the last few years and Ntengo said this was because they have been touring the world, performing at shows and weddings as well as teaching youths. “Our music is still going on and we’re still active. Most of the time, we’ll be doing shows and other projects like teaching children to dance and sing as well as make beads. Ntengo however said they were working on a new album that will be released next year.
Over the years, the group has toured Zimbabwe, Zambia, Namibia, Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland, Mozambique as well as UK and Canada. Since formation in 1989, Platform One has survived the test of time and Ntengo attributed this to “trusting and loving each other and working together as a group.” Gwala-Jele said they put everything to God to guide them through problems and misunderstandings with Dladla concurring saying they have stood the test of time because they treat each other as sisters. – @ncubeleon