The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
VETERAN Hwange striker, Gilbert Zulu, was yesterday crowned the Zifa Southern Region Division One Soccer Star of the Year at a ceremony held in Bulawayo. Zulu, went home with $500, $300 for being Soccer Star and $200 for emerging top goal scorer with 21 goals. The Southern Region awards were sponsored by philanthropist and Deputy Minister of Industry and Commerce Raj Modi. Zulu, who helped Hwange to make a quick Premiership return said: “I’m honoured to be recognised as the best player in the region and I wouldn’t have done this without my teammates and coaches.” Indlovu Iyanyathela’s teenage sensation Tafadzwa Dhliwayo was voted the first runner-up and went home with $200, while Tsholotsho’s attacking midfielder Michael Kudu Bhebhe got $150 for being the third best player. Division One champions Hwange dominated the 11 Soccer Stars of the Year finalists, providing three players. The Premiership bound Hwange had goalkeeper Tymon Mvula and attacking midfielder Canaan Nkomo joining Zulu on the stars’ calendar. The other eight finalists were Tsholotsho’s attacking midfielder Mcebisi Moyo, Talen Vision’s duo of striker Grey Kufandada and utility player Mandlenkosi Gasela, Moto Moto striker Tatenda Ushe, Israel Mukahanana of ZPC Hwange and Enos Magusvi from relegated ZRP Bulawayo. The eight finalists got $50 each. Hwange coach, Nation Dube, clinched the Coach of the Year award and $200 prize money. Zifa Southern Region administrator Augustine Ndlovu thanked Modi for bankrolling the awards. “For the last three years our patron Raj Modi has been supporting the Zifa Southern Region by bankrolling the stars’ awards as well as sponsoring the Landa John Nkomo Memorial Cup competed for by the top four teams. We’re grateful to our sponsor and his company for his support. We value the partnership with Modi and Liquor Hub despite the prevailing economic challenges,” said Ndlovu. Modi pledged to continue bankrolling the awards. — @ZililoR