The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter
PREPAID FBC Mastercard cardholders in Zimbabwe have a chance of winning a grand prize of a fully paid for trip to Paris, France, plus spending money in a promotion running until January 31, 2019. The final draw will take place in February 2019. FBC Bank and Mastercard collaborated in launching the FBC Mastercard seven years ago as an alternative to carrying cash while travelling and ensuring payment convenience and security for the cardholders. FBC brand manager Mr Roy Nyakunwa said the “transact without borders” promotion will reward cardholders for using their FBC Mastercard prepaid cards during the festive season as more individuals will be travelling and transacting beyond Zimbabwean borders. “The FBC ‘transact without borders’ promotion presents a perfect platform for FBC Bank to reward our Mastercard prepaid cardholders. We also aim to nurture a culture of transacting with plastic money and e-banking services to eliminate the risks associated with carrying cash in foreign countries,” he said. Mr Nyakunwa said for one to be a winner all prepaid FBC Mastercard cardholders who transact for a minimum of $10 on online platforms, POS and ATM machines stand a chance to win. The promotion is not limited to cardholders but extends to merchants and till operators with the highest number of transactions on the Mastercard-acquiring FBC, POS machines at the end of the promotion. The prizes are grouped into four categories, which include individual grand draw prizes, individual consolation prizes, individual monthly prizes and merchant and till operators’ prizes. The prizes include cash rewards, electronic devices, mobile phones and fully paid trips to local and international holiday destinations. Mastercard Southern Africa vice president, Mr Charlton Goredema, said FBC Mastercard cardholders can transact in more than 210 countries and the card offers an ideal payment alternative to cash as they offer a safe way to pay for goods. The FBC Mastercard prepaid card is also linked to a mobile application called the “FBC mobile application”. Mr Nyakunwa said the application saves customers the hustle of travelling to the bank for inquiries they can deal with on their own such as checking their balances, resetting their PIN codes and transferring money from one card to another. — @queentauruszw