The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
TRADITIONAL chiefs must lead the national healing and reconciliation process as they are the leaders in affected communities, the president of the Chiefs’ Council, Chief Fortune Charumbira has said. He said chiefs must be given a role to play as was the case in other countries that experienced similar disturbances. Speaking at the 17th Zanu-PF Annual National People’s Conference in Esigodini on Friday, Chief Charumbira said the issue of the disturbances in the Matabeleland provinces and parts of the Midlands requires the urgent intervention of chiefs. “There is an issue of Gukurahundi that is always talked about. I want to say it in public that as chiefs we agreed that we must take over this issue. In Rwanda and other countries people fought but now there is peace, why do people in this country keep referring to the Gukurahundi issue? So we are now taking over,” said Chief Charumbira. In an apparent reference to the National Peace and Reconciliation Commission (NPRC) which is mandated by the Constitution to lead the healing and reconciliation process in the country, Chief Charumbira said such Commissions had failed in other countries. He said peace was only achieved after the intervention of chiefs. “Give us a chance as chiefs, we are determined to work to bring closure to this issue. In Burundi and Rwanda the United Nations poured in millions of dollars and set up commissions made up of judges but it all failed. They then referred the issues to traditional chiefs. There is no United Nations that can solve your in-house issues, we can only solve them on our own,” said Chief Charumbira. President Emmerson Mnangagwa in January signed the National Peace and Reconciliation Commission Bill (NPRC) into law to operationalise the commission that was appointed in 2016. Section 252 of the Constitution states the NPRC’s functions are to ensure post-conflict justice, healing and reconciliation. The Constitution says the Commission must develop and implement programmes to promote national healing, unity and cohesion in Zimbabwe and the peaceful resolution of disputes. The Commission should also bring about national reconciliation by encouraging people to tell the truth about the past and facilitating the making of amends and the provision of justice. President Mnangagwa assigned Vice President Kembo Mohadi to be in charge of the Peace and Reconciliation portfolio. The NPRC has so far held provincial consultations countrywide on how it must conduct its business and has also unveiled its five year strategic plan. – @AuxiliaK