The Chronicle Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter
COMMERCIAL farmers in Matabeleland have welcomed the new wheat producer price for the 2018-19 marketing season and called on Government to also avail long-term loans for irrigation equipment to boost output. Last week, Government increased the wheat producer price from $500 per tonne to $630 taking into consideration the need to boost production and ensure food security. Zimbabwe Commercial Farmers’ Union (ZCFU) vice president, Mr Winston Babbage, said while farmers were happy with the new wheat producer price, programmes to boost output should be implemented. “We are happy with it, but we would like the Government to come up with a programme to assist the farmers with facilities to enable them to buy centre pivots for irrigation so that we can get more wheat production. “Remember wheat is produced during winter when there will be no rain in the country,” he said. “So we need more farmers to come on board with irrigation and this can be achieved if the Government can assist farmers with loans to be able to put up centre pivots,” he said. Over the years, concerns have been raised over the dilapidated state of irrigation infrastructure in some farms across the country. Apart from the Command Agriculture initiative, as part of efforts to improve wheat output, the Government has agreed to facilitate grain millers and bakers to venture into wheat farming for their specific needs. A Command Farming Programme has also been initiated by the Government to boost Zimbabwe’s wheat yield. In 2017 an estimated 20 000 tonnes was harvested. The crop’s output experienced a steep decline when production halved to 150 000 tonnes before further declining to about 38 000 tonnes during the hyperinflation period of 2008/9. Zimbabwe requires 450 000 tonnes of wheat per year and at its peak in 2001 production stood at 325 000 tonnes. The country is presently spending $200 million importing wheat, a major ingredient in the production of bread. As a result of the deficit, which has been exacerbated by foreign currency shortages, Zimbabwe faced a bread shortage recently, forcing players in the baking industry to increase bread price from $1,10 to $1,40 a loaf in October. “Before we produce our own wheat, where are we failing as a country? With long-term loans farmers can significantly improve wheat production so that we don’t have bread shortages like what we have experienced in the past,” said Mr Babbage. — @okazunga