The Chronicle Cuthbert Mavheko Zimbabwe will on Saturday, 22 December 2018, celebrate the 31st anniversary of the Unity Accord, which was signed by the country’s two revolutionary parties — Zanu-PF and PF-Zapu in 1987. The former President of Zimbabwe, Mr Robert Mugabe, and the late Dr Joshua Nkomo, signed the historic Unity Accord on December 22, 1987. This merged PF-Zapu and Zanu-PF into the Zanu-PF. The signing of the unity agreement ushered in a refreshing era of peace, unity and tranquillity in the country, following political disturbances that rocked Matabeleland and parts of the Midlands in the early 1980s. It is insightful to note that since the signing of the Unity Accord, Zimbabweans have enjoyed peace, unity and tranquillity, which are the envy of, not only the Southern Africa region, but the entire continent. This year’s Unity Day celebrations are unique as they come a few months after the “born-again” Zanu-PF party knocked out the MDC alliance, led by Advocate Nelson Chamisa, in the electoral boxing contest held on July 30, 2018. During the run-up to these watershed elections, some observers pontificated that this was going to be a tight political contest in which Zanu-PF and its presidential candidate, Cde Mnangagwa, would be stretched and taken to the wire. Be that as it may, the elections turned out to be a one-way traffic for Zanu-PF as it romped to victory with a crashing two-thirds majority in Parliament. In the presidential poll, Chamisa garnered 44.6 percent of the vote, trailing the eventual winner, Cde Mnangagwa, who polled 50.6 percent. What made the July 30 harmonised elections an important milestone in the country’s history was the peace and tranquillity, which swept across the length and breadth of the country like a tidal wave, before and during the elections. This proved, to all and sundry, that Zimbabweans have come of age and can conduct their elections peacefully without mauling and battering each other. The ancient adage “Mwana Wevhu/ Umntwana Wenhlabathi” means every Zimbabwean — black, white or oriental — belongs to this country and has an important role to play in building the Second Republic into an oasis of peace, unity and prosperity. Unity Day should be construed as a celebration of a togetherness, which rescued the people of Zimbabwe from the voracious predators of tribalism and hatred and brought them together as one big, united family. While the flame of peace burns brightly in Zimbabwe, a tragic scenario prevails in some African countries like Chad and Nigeria where people are being terrorised by an insurgent group, Boko Haram. The terrorist group, which has links with Al Qaeda, has over the years, butchered hundreds of innocent civilians. In Kenya, the population is still entangled in a web of utter consternation, not knowing when Al Shabab, will strike again, bearing in mind that, a few years ago, the insurgent group butchered 147 students at Garissa University. In light of the foregoing, one wonders if the generality of Zimbabweans really appreciate the value of the peace and stability that reign supreme in this country as a result of the Unity Accord. To safeguard the gains of the Unity Accord, we must remain united, even in the face of adversity and cling, with the tenacity of savannah ticks, to what unites us and not what divides us as we embark on the intricate processes of building the Second Republic. We also need to acknowledge that peace and unity begin at grassroots level — in our homes and respective communities. Charity begins at home, they say. As parents, our homes fall under our stewardship; so we have a moral obligation to bring up our children in an environment that promotes love, respect, peace and unity. The onus is thus on us, as responsible, God-fearing people, to teach and educate our families on the importance of unity and peace in our homes and communities for the betterment of the nation. It should be mentioned here that the family is the glue that holds the nation together. If we are united at grassroots level, then it will be much easier for us to work together as a united entity at national level. As we celebrate Unity Day, may we observe a moment of silence in honour of the late Dr Joshua Nkomo, who played a crucial role in building peace and unity; and cultivating the ethos of reconciliation in our country. The narrative of peace and unity in Zimbabwe, before and after independence, would be incomplete if we did not acknowledge the role played by Father Zimbabwe. If indeed the truth be told without fear or favour, the late Dr Nkomo was a knight in shining armour. Despite the bitter rivalry with former president Robert Mugabe, Dr Nkomo was prepared to sacrifice his personal interests at the altar of national interests. Although he is no longer with us, the peace-building legacy he left us will, no doubt, remains one of our most treasured possessions. It is thus incumbent upon as a nation, to uphold and perpetuate Dr Nkomo’s vision of a peaceful, genuinely united and prosperous Zimbabwe. We must not betray his legacy by investing in selfish personal aggrandisement at the expense of our fellow countrymen. As we build the Second Republic of Zimbabwe, the era of hate speech must be replaced by that of unity, peace, love and tolerance. As Zimbabweans, we have been bruised for a long time. It’s time to put our political differences behind us and create, in the Second Republic, an enabling environment, where we live side by side in harmony, regardless of race, tribe, religion or political affiliation. “Umdala Wethu” esteemed these values and was prepared to die for them. It is indeed unfortunate that there are some people who do not appreciate the value of unity and peace. While President ED Mnangangwa and Zanu-PF are blowing the trumpet of peace and unity, the MDC Alliance is banging war drums, threatening to unseat a democratically-elected Government through mass street protests. As I conclude this discourse, let me state that no force can break the strength of the people of Zimbabwe if they remain united as one entity under the banner of the re-invented and rejuvenated Zanu-PF, led by President Mnangangwa. It is the humble submission of this pen that the leadership of the MDC–Alliance can shout, bark, hiss and make threatening noises, but they will never be able to stop the train of peace, unity and development, which is steaming across the country at full throttle with Cde Mnangangwa at the controls. – Cuthbert Mavheko is a freelance journalist based in Bulawayo and has contributed articles and short-stories to the Chronicle, Sunday News and other publications since 1995. Contact details: Mobile 0773963448, e-mail: mavhekoc@gmail.com