The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Reporter
TRUE to its symbolic name, Matabeleland South, dubbed the “Rainbow Province,” yesterday proved to be worth its name, as thousands of Zanu-PF delegates from diverse ethnicities thronged Mzingwane High School, the venue of party’s 17th Annual National People’s Conference. The small, usually quiet town of Esigodini, which is synonymous with gold mining and agricultural activities, was a hive of activity with locals recording brisk business from the delegates. Esigodini residents watched in admiration as cars of different makes meandered from the Bulawayo-Gwanda Road into the venue of the conference. At the venue, music headlined by hit song Kutonga Kwaro by contemporary musician Mukudzeyishe Mukombe, who performs under the name Jah Prayzah, reverberated with cheers and song as President Emmerson Mnangagwa arrived shortly after 10AM, to mark the beginning of the programme. When the President took to the VIP stage, he waved at the cheerful crowd, which had been eagerly waiting for his arrival before he joined them in song and dance. He mesmerised the euphoric crowd with his well-choreographed dances. The Police Band kept guests on their toes as it belted out familiar liberation songs, which captured the mood of the occasion. About 6 000 delegates drawn from the country’s 10 provinces are attending this year’s annual indaba which is running under the theme “Zimbabwe Is Open for Business: Peace, Unity towards an Upper Middle-Income Economy By 2030.” Zanu-PF Matabeleland South chairman Cde Rabelani Choeni thanked the provincial coordinating team for organising the event. He also congratulated the President for winning the July 30 harmonised elections. “As a province we congratulate you for resoundingly winning the July 30 harmonised elections. As Matabeleland South Province we have also resolved that come 2023 you are the sole Presidential candidate for the party,” he said. Cde Choeni said the conference was unique in that it was the first in the Second Republic. The Minister of State for Matabeleland South Provincial Affairs Cde Abednico Ncube, in his welcome remarks, said the province is home to the busiest inland port of entry in sub-Saharan Africa, Beitbridge Border Post, which is the also gateway to most Sadc countries. The host province was also home to the late Vice-President Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo and other late national heroes such as Cdes Naison Khutshwekhaya Ndlovu, Stephen Jeqe Nkomo, Lookout Masuku, George Silundika, Sydney Malunga, Enos Nkala and Mark Dube, among others. Other late nationalists who also came from the province were Cdes Boysen Mguni and Vote Moyo. – @mashnets