The Chronicle Business Reporter
BUBI Milling Centre (Private) Limited has invited tenders for the construction of a carbon-in-pulp plant in Matabeleland North. The milling centre is one of the many gold service centres earmarked to be set-up by the Government as it moves to ensure the yellow metal from small-scale and artisanal miners is sold through formal channels. Bubi Milling Centre, a joint venture between Bubi Small-Scale Miners’ Association and the Zimbabwe Mining Development Corporation (ZMDC) was commissioned by Vice President Dr Constantino Chiwenga in July. In a notice for tender invitation, Bubi Milling Centre said it was inviting applications from reputable, eligible qualified, experienced, and capable general building and engineering contractors to tender for the proposed project. “Completed forms must be delivered to the Bubi Milling Centre premises (44 kilometre peg from Bulawayo along Nkayi road) by Wednesday, 19 December. “This tender document provides the requirements and the scope for this project, which is required to access the suitability off the bids,” it said. “The successful applicant will be required to deliver services in accordance with all the requirements of the project details.” A carbon-in-pulp plant is an extraction technique for recovery of gold, which has been liberated into a cyanide solution as part of the gold cyanidation process. The process was introduced into the mining industry in the early 1980s and carbon-in-pulp is regarded as a simple and cheap process. The project shall also include all feed material test works, civil works, construction or installation of but not limited to ore bin, conveyances and ball mill among others. In the past, small-scale and artisanal miners were failing to obtain substantial value from the ore delivered to private gold millers. ZMDC facilitated a loan of $3,5 million from Fidelity Printers and Refiners for the procurement of machinery and various mining consumables for use at the centre. The loan facility is expected to be repaid over a three-year period.