The Chronicle Freeman Razemba, Harare Bureau
Government has put in place several legal instruments to bring sanity to the economy and the Zimbabwe Republic Police should play a pivotal role in bringing to book all offenders caught on the wrong side of the law, Commissioner-General Godwin Matanga has said. He challenged police officers to ensure that law and order was maintained in the country by bringing all the perpetrators of crime to book so that justice can be served. Comm-Gen Matanga said this while addressing 49 officers who recently returned from United Nations Peacekeeping duties in South Sudan, Darfur and Abyei. A total of 15 others are set to leave the country for South Sudan on a similar mission. Comm-Gen Matanga said the officers had returned home when Government was unravelling a raft of measures aimed at turning around the economy. “Several legal instruments have been put in place to bring sanity in the economy hence as police we should play our part by bringing all offenders to book,” he said. “I wish to also point out that in this Second Republic, it is no longer business as usual. I am happy that you all stood tall in your various peacekeeping assignments but I also take this opportunity to challenge you to do even much better back home.” Comm-Gen Matanga said Government continued to demonstrate commitment to provide the police with the necessary tools of trade. “Just recently, His Excellency, President ED Mnangagwa, commissioned a batch of brand new vehicles for the police,” he said. “The nation and indeed Government expects us as police to deliver. “To this end, individually and severally, all of us as police officers, should selflessly serve the people of our great nation. Professionalism, high work ethic, respect for human rights and quality service delivery should be the hallmark of policing trajectory in this new dispensation.” Comm-Gen Matanga said during the peacekeeping missions, the force had learnt some vital lessons from the violence-torn countries, which include the fact that precious lives were needlessly lost while at the same time, the socio-economic development was derailed. He said on top of that, wars left painful memories, shock, trauma and physical permanent scars on innocent citizens. “I am exceedingly happy that Zimbabwe is indeed a peaceful country,” said Comm-Gen Matanga. “We should all cherish and jealously safeguard the peace we are enjoying as a nation. “As police officers who are bestowed with a duty of fostering peace and security in the country, we should perform our duties diligently and with a high level of professionalism.” Comm-Gen Matanga congratulated one of the officers, Inspector Annah Chotah, after she was awarded the 2017 International Female Police Peacekeeper and Professional Service to the United Nations in relation to Gender and Child Affairs awards. Comm-Gen Matanga urged the outgoing contingent to shun all behaviour that might bring the name of the force and the country into disrepute. The event was attended by Deputy Commissioner-General Stephen Mutamba, senior officers and non-commissioned officers.