The Chronicle Showbiz Correspondent
THIS year’s annual All White Braai Party taking place at Umqombothi Bar in Nkulumane 5 suburb tomorrow might be the last one due to the prevailing economic challenges. The event, which is now in its third edition, has become a must attend for people who want to party and have fun in the ghetto during the festive season. Organised by Event Techniques and Devine Assignments, the party has been popular among many because it attracts people from all walks of life. Sadly, DJ Sweeto of Event Techniques said if the prevailing economic crunch and increase of prices of commodities continues unabated, they might shelve the event next year. “It’s very hard to organise such a massive party in the prevailing economic environment. Prices of commodities are skyrocketing every day and it’s very difficult to make money off the party at the end of the day. “Even for our patrons, buying an all-white outfit in Zimbabwe is very difficult as jeans cost around $50, a T-shirt $30 and a pair of shoes $70. It’s unsustainable,” said DJ Sweeto. “So if the situation continues into next year, this will be the last all white party.” He said for this year’s event, a mixture over 30 DJs, dance groups and musicians will entertain patrons. The DJs include Nospa, Crazy D, MduSevan, Jza, Khumz, and Sons of Voodoo while dance groups include Slow Poison, Sabatsha Queens, Sungura Masters. Stage performances will be from rapper Kidd Ego, Mellow Music, Dr Juta and Cue Movement. MCs on the day will be Gringo, Babongile, MaTing Ting and Queen. Festivities are expected to kick off at 2PM. “There’ll be two stages, an indoor one with the other one outside. The stage outside will be for performances in the afternoon and the second stage inside Mqombothi is for people to be entertained by live acts when the sun sets. “Those who want to sit outside can do so well into the night,” said DJ Sweeto. He said it was their wish to have people adhere to the all-white theme. “Our hope is for people to try their best to be dressed in all white. We’ve incentives for that in the form of braai packs for the best dressed during the day. This will hopefully encourage people to dress in all white.”