The Chronicle Fidelis Munyoro and Davison Kaiyo, Harare Bureau
Outgoing Indonesian ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Stephanus Yuwono has hailed efforts made in strengthening bilateral ties between the Asian country and Zimbabwe over the past four years. Speaking to journalists after bidding President Emmerson Mnangagwa farewell at his Munhumutapa Offices yesterday, Ambassador Yuwono expressed satisfaction with the way both countries have worked to improve co-operation in the economy, trade, culture, tourism and education. “We talked about the improvement in relations between Zimbabwe and Indonesia, particularly about 90 students from Zimbabwe studying in Indonesia, I am going to advise officials in Indonesia that we should increase the number of Zimbabwean students studying in our country. “The second issue was about co-operation in tourism. A lot of tourists from Indonesia are coming to Zimbabwe particularly Victoria Falls via Johannesburg.” Ambassador Yuwono also indicated that an infrastructural development deal was on the cards following a visit by a business delegation from Jakarta last November. “Last November we had a high-powered delegation from Jakarta that laid the groundwork for infrastructure projects in Zimbabwe,” he said. “They met officials here and I am going to urge them to make a follow up and hopefully next year everything will be signed and the project could start,” he said. On the political and economic fronts, Ambassador Yuwono expressed optimism over the economic prospects of the country. He expressed gratitude for Harare’s support for the Asian country in the United Nations Security Council. “I also thanked the President for Zimbabwe’s support for Indonesia as the non-permanent member of the UN’s Security Council,” he said. After his four-year stay in Zimbabwe, Ambassador Yuwono said he was optimistic about the future of Zimbabwe. “Be patient, work hard, and definitely you will become one of the most prosperous African countries,” he said. Zimbabwe and Indonesia relations started in 1986 after the opening of the Indonesian embassy in Harare.