The Chronicle Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Reporter
VICE-President Constantino Chiwenga yesterday endorsed President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s candidature in the 2023 harmonised elections, putting to rest false speculative reports in some sections of the private media that there was rivalry between the two leaders. VP Chiwenga’s endorsement of President Mnangagwa’s candidature comes after all Zanu-PF provinces and organs had endorsed the President as the sole candidate in the country’s next elections in 2023. False reports by privately owned media claimed that President Mnangagwa and his deputy were fighting each other behind the scenes and through proxies to control the party and Government. The false media reports quoting unnamed senior Zanu-PF officials alleged that the Esigodini conference was likely to be an explosive affair. Addressing delegates at the Zanu-PF’s 17th Annual National People’s Conference in Esigodini, Matabeleland South, VP Chiwenga said President Mnangagwa was obliged to serve his two full terms in terms of the constitution. “I want this to be heard here and afar that from now until 2023 when next elections fall due that you (President Mnangagwa) are our one and only Presidential candidate in that plebiscite. Our national constitution allows you two full terms and you shall have them so that our party continues to grow from your wise and compassionate leadership. We will not wait for 2023, we will start now to prepare for your victory, which we know is surely coming,” he said, drawing a thunderous applause from the delegates. The Vice-President also lashed out at the MDC Alliance for refusing to recognise the President. “You personally stretched out your hand to the opposition after the July 30 landside victory, but the opposition shunned that hand. The opposition decided to disrespect our leader who is the Head of State of our nation. We have therefore no reason to give them the respect they have voluntarily forfeited,” he said. VP Chiwenga said in line with President Mnangagwa’s Vision 2030 to transform the country into an upper middle income economy within the next 12 years, there was need to grow the economy and create jobs, particularly for youths. “You reminded us that devolution and decentralisation are requirements of our constitution. You reminded us that we must respect our constitution to pass the rule of law test. You urged that the party must lead in the devolution and decentralisation process to ensure that there is balanced national development promised by our constitution,” he said. “The President’s Vision 2030 by which our country should have attained the upper middle income status and the two year Transitional Stabilisation Programme now underway prepares us towards that goal.” He also challenged party members to adhere to the party’s founding ideals, values and goals of the struggle. “Our party must seek to define the national question. Above all how each successive generation in our party must successfully answer that national question within the broad values of our party using the organisational resources of our party and relying on the means and resources which God, the Almighty gave our nation,” said VP Chiwenga. He also underscored the need for unity in the party. “The President has underscored the need for unity and discipline in the party and discipline means strict adherence to the party line. Unity means respecting and advancing the corrective of the party and subordinating little personal ambitions. It means working within and promoting party mission and structures. Often we have heard abrasive and despondent voices, which shun party platforms or fora outside and against the party,” said VP Chiwenga. He also warned party members against complacency following an overwhelming victory in the July 30 elections, saying there was a need to use the two thirds majority in Parliament to effectively serve people. “The party must now face the market, it must move into business. It is now business, business, economics, economics. We, in leadership, must exhibit and espouse very high and impeccable moral standards. Those who fail such standards and choose to chase filthy ways will fall by the wayside,” he said. – @mashnets