The Chronicle Chronicle Reporters
PEOPLE living in Matabeleland provinces have been called upon to come out in their numbers for the historic National Clean-Up campaigns in their areas tomorrow. The National Clean Up, running under the theme “Zero Tolerance to litter – my environment, my Pride”, will be officially launched by President Emmerson Mnangagwa in Harare with a number of activities lined up in all the country’s provinces. In a media briefing yesterday, Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister, Cde Judith Ncube, said massive stakeholder participation is key for the success of the programme. “There is a need to enlist the participation of everyone on this day. There should be massive stakeholder involvement in the cleaning of their areas on the day. Without stakeholder participation this programme will be futile. “I therefore urge all stakeholders throughout the province to fully participate in this noble initiative which will be led by His Excellency, the President of the Republic, Cde ED Mnangagwa nationally,” she said. The Minister said her office is fully behind the initiative and is ready to avail any logistical support which may be required to ensure the programme becomes a resounding success. Minister Ncube said preparations on the ground indicate that stakeholders have greatly embraced the initiative and are ready to roll out the programme on the day and make it a resounding success. She said the provincial event will be held at the Bulawayo City Hall car park at 08:30AM. “It is my conviction that all roads will lead to the various cleaning sites in Bulawayo,” Minister Ncube said. Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs Minister Mr Richard Moyo encouraged citizens to dress appropriately so that they can easily pick up litter. “As the day draws near, it is important that the day’s activities are as practical and effective as possible. We cannot afford to launch a cosmetic clean up as we need all the help there is to ensure we have a clean and safe environment,” said Minister Moyo. He said everyone should play their part in cleaning the environment tomorrow. “We will have our provincial launch in Hwange and we are going to start at 8AM. We kindly ask residents, business people and everyone to acquire dust coats, work suits, gumboots, gloves and every cleaning tool as a sign of their commitment to cleaning the environment,” said the Minister. Matabeleland South Provincial Affairs Minister Abednico Ncube said the clean-up would address the outcry over poor waste management in residential areas, vending areas, along highways and in work places. “I therefore urge all of us to take responsibility and desist from littering and dumping at undesignated areas. It is the duty of every household to have standard bins for waste disposal. I also encourage the media to continue creating awareness of this noble cause so that the programme is a success,” said Minister Ncube. He said in Matabeleland South province, the venue of the events are as follows: Jahunda hall in Gwanda, Filabusi centre in Insiza district, Habane in Umzingwane, Maphisa growth point in Matobo, Nxele business centre in Mangwe district, Dingimuzi extension in Plumtree, Lutumba Business centre and Dulibadzimu stadium both in Beitbridge. — @thamamoe.