The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
SOUTH Africa-based Warriors left-back Divine Lunga returned to action at the weekend, playing the entire game as his Golden Arrows side beat Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs 2-1 in Durban at the weekend. Lunga, who limped off in the 60th minute when his side beat Black Leopards 1-0 on October 7, missed four matches for Arrows and the Warriors’ three 2019 African Cup of Nations qualifiers. Lunga, who had a brilliant start for Arrows since joining the Durban side in July, started 10 competitive matches for his team, nine league games and one cup tournament, before picking up the injury he described as “a setback” in his quest to hold on to a national team jersey. Lunga told Chronicle Sport that he was hoping to return to his early season form and to get a national team call-up. “I’m now fully fit and it was quite good to return with a win against a big side like Kaizer Chiefs. The good thing is that I’m not feeling any pain and want to work hard to regain my form because the injury was a massive setback for me. Hopefully if I keep playing and doing well I will be able to return to the national team,” Lunga said. His teammate Knox Mutizwa also played the entire game for Arrows at the weekend. Warriors’ Kaizer Chiefs trio of defender Teenage Hadebe, midfielders Willard Katsande and Khama Billiat failed to inspire the Soweto giants. Arrows’ defensive midfielder Danny “Deco” Phiri has recovered from injury and started training last week. Ronald Pfumbidzai, who replaced Lunga in the national team, was an unused substitute for Bloemfontein Celtics in their 1-2 loss to Polokwane City. Warriors’ and Polokwane City goalkeeper, George Chigova, watched from the bench. Orlando Pirates defender Marshal Munetsi played the entire match in the 0-0 draw against Maritzburg United, while Evans Rusike lasted 63 minutes for SuperSport United, who were beaten 2-1 by Mamelodi Sundowns. Former Warriors’ left-back Onismo Bhasera was introduced in the 36th minute by SuperSport coach, Kaitano Tembo. Underrated former Tsholotsho central midfielder Butholezwe Ncube struck a priceless goal as AmaZulu edged Chippa United 1-0. National team midfielder, Ovidy Karuru, was not part of AmaZulu’s match day squad and watched the game from the terraces. In Europe, Marvelous Nakamba picked a yellow card in Club Brugge’s 3-0 win over Standard Liege to take their points’ tally to 37 from 17 games. Club Brugge, the Belgian defending champions, are second on the table, four points behind Genk, who beat Knowledge Musona’s Anderlecht 1-0. Musona was rested for the Genk game, having featured in Thursday’s Uefa Europa League tie against Slovakia’s Spartak Trnava. Alec Mudimu played the entire Wales Premiership match, as his CEFN Druids drew 2-2 against Bala Town. Striker Tinotenda Kadewere played the last nine minutes for Ligue 2’s Le Harve, who drew 1-1 against Auxerre. — @ZililoR