The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
DRUG dealers in the city are allegedly lacing food with drugs for sell to school children during break time, Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Judith Ncube has said. It is alleged that drug dealers sell cakes, freezits, scones and maputi mixed with drugs at various schools in the city. Cde Ncube said the startling revelations were made during a recent stakeholder meeting comprising parents, pupils and law enforcement agents at Mpopoma High School. The Minister said she could not divulge more details on the culprits as it would jeopardise investigations. Cde Ncube said the drugs were being sold by adults who are devising means of selling them to school children. Speaking at the launch of the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission Bulawayo offices last week, Cde Ncube said some pupils disclosed that they smuggle mbanje in their neck ties and smoke during breaktime. “Omunye umntwana uthi angabhema kasaboni titsha usebona itsiyane (Another pupil said after smoking, a teacher will be looking like a chick). “He then tells the teacher to go away, kicking him as he would be seeing him as a chick. What then happens is that the teacher will take a position to just watch that child and ignore him,” she said. “You, as the parents continue paying school fees for this child who is no longer learning, who is no longer being assisted because when the teacher comes to assist them, they don’t see a teacher but they see a chick.” Cde Ncube urged everyone to take a stand in the fight against drugs. “As a nation of Zimbabwe, as Bulawayo we can’t sit back and do nothing. Possibly, there is someone involved in the corrupt activities because when you are involved in those you are paid for your plans, strategies to destroy children through drugs,” she said. Last week, scores of residents demonstrated at Entumbane Police Station in Bulawayo against drug dealers who are allegedly selling drugs to their children in the suburb. The slogan-chanting residents waved placards with messages urging the police to arrest culprits. “Police please do your job, investigate, arrest and prosecute culprits,” read some of the placards. The residents claimed the main culprit is a 39-year-old, popularly known as maHadebe but police said they have no incriminating evidence against her. However, residents allege she has been selling drugs including dagga and a potent cough mixture commonly known as ngoma, to their children for years. – @AuxiliaK