The Chronicle Bongiwe Nkomazana on Gender We all love the holidays. In fact, what keeps us sane throughout the year is the fact that there is the December light at the end of the tunnel. December is our favourite, we love it and we just cannot hide it nor deny it. Having family come in from all over the world, bingeing on the best meals and downing the not so best drinks just creates a very festive atmosphere that we would never trade for anything. On the other hand, it is also a very stressful time. Getting everything in order for everyone like the many meals, the bathroom turns and the bedding for the many sleeping areas is cumbersome and is usually our task as daughters, wives, aunts and grandmothers. Hence, today we will share just a few pointers that will hopefully help us improve our holiday management strategy. Sadly, these holidays are almost over and the countdown to next December has started for some of us but these tips apply for every break that we will get throughout the year. Time is everything and I think first and foremost, we need to plan out our holidays well in time. This is easy because we all have calendars and are aware of what period of the year is a holiday and how soon or far it is. No offence, but I have realised that it is more common for people living in the west to start preparations for their holidays as early as January. Whether it is a trip overseas, a trip to a local fun place or a day at home with family, they are usually ticking boxes off of their checklist as soon as possible. This gives them time to think of everything resulting in a well-organised and smooth flowing holiday. We on the other hand, start looking for supplies on the December 23 as if we were not aware of the fact that we will need these supplies. I take the biscuit in this because throughout the year, I had been thinking to make this dessert that my family absolutely loves and the key ingredient is marshmallows. This was me on Christmas morning at the grocery store doing my rounds of the infamous last minute shopping with marshmallows on the top of the agenda and to make it worse I did not even have a list. I got back home and started preparing the dessert with a sense of achievement and confidence only to realise that I had forgotten the marshmallows! The half-done dessert is still half-done in the fridge and will probably go stale. My point is, just to plan out whatever it is you want to do during the holidays in advance so that you get the full enjoyable experience versus panicking and being all over the place during this time. We spend too much money unnecessarily during these times. We should not be doing this, not only in fear of January disease but because we want to be more responsible with our money so that we and our families are still taken care of even after the holiday. The best way to achieve minimal spending is to have a budget. We all know what a budget is for, to guide our spending. The way a country or organisation would go haywire without a proper indication of expected expenditure and where the money to cover them would come from is the same way we would. We were teasing a colleague the other day and humorously expressed our sympathy towards his wife after we saw a meme that made fun of how men who are accountants, Seventh Day Adventist and Ndebele are so tight on the wallet and he happened to be all these things. However, on a realistic note we all kind of have to be accountants with our finances, period. December is synonymous with spending. Some of us with slight shopping problems have zero guilt with indulging on an expensive pair of shoes in December because after all ‘tis the season to be jolly fa la lalalalala’. Well, fa la la not. Let us not spend just for the sake of spending. At the same time, while setting a budget that is too tight may appear to be a smart route to take, it may result in the opposite of what you are trying to achieve. This is where phrases like “YOLO (you only live once)” and “what the heck money should be spent” come from. You get so frustrated when you realise that the money you had set aside for something is far from enough to a point where you just disregard your budget completely. I know you know what I am talking about especially with this our economy. Find a balance between spending as little as possible and allocating too little to your activities. We loosely call them “burial societies” also known as ‘saving and lending groups’ to some. These are groups of people, mostly popular among women, who come together to either take monthly turns to receive a certain amount of money from each other or buy groceries in bulk that they will share mid-year or at the end of the year. Growing up, it was standard that my mom would bring in loads of groceries at the end of the year that would last for the longest time. Looking at that method now, as an adult who is barely holding on at this adulting thing, it was a huge money saver because firstly, you won’t have to shop for the essential groceries for the longest time. Secondly, your holiday shopping list is reduced or you can direct the money to other things that will make your festivities that much more memorable. My advice is to find people whom you trust and start this process; you have nothing to lose really. I would not be doing this topic any justice if I left out potlucks. Embrace potlucks. They are absolute life and time savers. I absolutely love these because not only are they cheaper but they also allow there to be a wider variety of dishes cooked in different ways. They also in a subtle way, bring a sense of togetherness through that coming together and sharing resources which is what the holidays are all about. Lastly, do not feel guilty about just trying to make it out of the holidays alive. Say no to the things you do not care for and ask for help when you need it. Remember that there is nothing like the perfect or ideal holiday, therefore, do not put unnecessary pressure upon yourself to create what the media says a holiday should be like. You know yourself and your family and as long as you are happy and relaxed, it is perfect.