The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League returnees, Hwange, are working round the clock to ensure that things are in order before embarking on their pre-season.
While some club coaches are on a festive break, coach Nation Dube has been shuttling between the company’s offices and the Colliery Stadium, overseeing preparations for their Premiership return. In a telephone interview from his base yesterday, Dube said: “There’s no holiday for me because if I take a break, things may not move the way I want them to. As it is I’m at the company offices wrapping up on some logistical issues that have to be sorted out before we begin our pre-season camp on January 8. From the office, I’ve to pass through the stadium and see if the grass has been cut well and the facility is on course to weather the storm that is coming”. The coalminers made a quick return to the topflight by winning the Southern Region Division One League title with ease, having been relegated from the Premiership at the end of the 2017 season. Dube, who was brought back at the beginning of the year to get the coalminers back to the Premiership after Bigboy Mawiwi sunk them into the First Division, said all player deals will be worked on next month. “Things look promising and I can’t complain. All I’m looking forward to is having everyone on January 8. We haven’t made any deals as yet, everything will be done when we meet for pre-season. Then, logistics like food and accommodation for out of Hwange players should have been sorted,” said Dube. The seasoned gaffer will also open doors to players drawn from clubs competing in the Zifa Matabeleland North Division Two League as well as the area zone, Wankie Football Association (WAFA). Exceptional players identified from outside the Matabeleland North community will then be drafted into the Hwange squad. “In the past, Hwange used to get talent from teams competing in WAFA like Rufaro Rovers, Giant Killers, Kabwe, Brazil and Raylton, among others. “Players from those leagues took pride in playing for Hwange and recruiting from WAFA motivated other youngsters. “This is exactly what we are trying to do to motivate these youngsters from the Hwange community and give them hope so that they give their best when playing for Chipangano,” Dube said recently. Hwange will also be on the lookout for youngsters that will complement veteran players Gilbert Zulu, Andrew Chuma, Felix Chindungwe and Gerald Ndlovu. Dube is hunting for a playmaker and wingbacks, who will give his side another dimension when attacking, as well as a central defender. Hwange used to be a showpiece for players from the coalmining town and surrounding areas, producing stars such as ex-Warriors and Mamelodi Sundowns captain Method Mwanjali, Fabian Zulu, Chenjerai Dube, Witness Munkuli and FC Platinum’s Gift Mbweti. Young Warriors’ striker Delic Murimba, who was in terrific form during the just ended Cosafa Under-20 Championship in Zambia, played for Hwange in 2017 before being snapped up by Triangle United. — @ZililoR