The Chronicle Natasha Chamba, Business Reporter
A LOCAL young innovator, Mr Byron Kabaira has launched online bookkeeping software that allows Small to Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and freelancers to perform accounting entries for their businesses. In an interview with Business Chronicle, he said his software is the passionate product of cutting edge business solutions provision. “The software is an online bookkeeping software called Ziminvoice targeted at SMEs and freelancers. It is the passionate product of cutting edge business solutions provision,” he said. Mr Kabaira said the initiative to create the software came when he realised that most small business owners struggle with financial accountability, control and literacy. He said he came up with the software to solve bookkeeping and accounting problems in an affordable yet precise way. “SMEs are huge contributors to national Gross Domestic Product yet they remain sidelined by mainstream accounting solutions provision companies,” he said. Mr Kabaira said the system was accessible from any internet capable device including smartphones. After registration, he said one would be provided with login details with the privilege of setting a preferred password. “For those who wish to sample the software, which is accessible to everyone, can be accessed on a demo,” he said. The innovator said the software was an easy to use system specially designed with the layman in mind and it helps bring about the much-needed professional appeal to small businesses while helping put all bookkeeping functions. “It also generates reports like income statements, balance sheet and VAT input and output report therefore, facilitating basic business progression analysis,” he said. “This is a life changing financial solution and capable of creating employment while solving the costing crisis and the software is just like any other computerised accounting software, it works through subscriptions paid monthly or discounted block payments.”  — @queentauruszw