The Chronicle Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter
RAINS are expected later this week countrywide, the Meteorological Services Department said yesterday. In a statement, the department’s Meteorologist, Mr James Ngoma, encouraged people to continue drinking liquids and wearing sun hats to avoid dehydration due to the prevailing high temperatures. “The atmosphere has relatively dried out over much of the country, but the cyclic episode of another cloud band is expected to bring more rainfall later this week. Members of the public should note that these high temperatures may lead to dehydration and exhaustion. They are strongly advised to take lots of fluids and put on sun hats when working in the open,” said Mr Ngoma. He said the first part of the week is bound to be hot and mostly sunny. “Beginning off rather mild in the early morning hours, it should quickly warm up, becoming hot by midday with plenty of sunshine. The evening should be more bearable with generally clear skies and mild conditions,” said Mr Ngoma. He said scattered clouds are expected over the south-eastern districts of Matabeleland South, namely Bulilima, Mangwe, Matobo, Gwanda and Beitbridge districts. “Overnight thundershowers cannot be ruled out from the above mentioned districts,” Mr Ngoma said. Farmers have since been urged to brace for a dry season in the face of an El Nino-induced drought. Over the weekend Masvingo crop and livestock provincial officer Mr Peter Chamisa said farmers should plant short term varieties as the country is expected to record below normal to normal rainfall. He said those who would plant small grains have a better chance of achieving better yields when El Nino take its toll. “Farmers may start planting now if they have prepared their farms. The current rains signal the start of the rainy season,” said Mr Chamisa. “I would recommend farmers to plant drought resistant crops like the short grain and if they decide to plant maize, the varieties should be of a short-term.” — @thamamoe