The Chronicle Fidelis Munyoro, Harare Bureau
CABINET has assigned Vice President Constantino Chiwenga to oversee the engagement between Government and striking junior doctors to find an amicable solution to an industrial action that has entered its third week. Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Minister Monica Mutsvangwa announced the latest development at a media briefing yesterday. Minister Mutsvangwa chairs the Cabinet briefing ministerial committee. “Following presentation by the Minister of Health and Child Care on the junior doctors’ strike, Cabinet, while noting the ongoing efforts to resolve the matter, agreed that henceforth the engagement process be under the guidance of Honourable Vice President Chiwenga,” she said. Junior doctors went on strike at the beginning of the month citing low remuneration, lack of drugs at public hospitals and poor working conditions. Minister Mutsvangwa said Government also expressed concern over a spate of road accidents in recent months which have resulted in the deaths of dozens of passengers. In the latest incident, 17 people died following a head on collision by two commuter near Juru Growth Point along the Harare-Nyamapanda highway on Sunday. Twelve of the passengers died on the spot while the rest later succumbed to injuries. “It is regrettable that the accidents continue to be caused by human error, implying that they can otherwise be avoided. Cabinet consoles the bereaved families and wishes a speedy recovery to those injured in the accidents,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. She urged motorists to exercise caution during the festive season to avoid further loss of lives. Cabinet, which had its last sitting for the year on Tuesday, approved the Principles for Cyber Protection, Data Protection and Electronic Transaction Bill following a presentation by Information Communication Technology, Postal and Courier Services Minister Kazembe Kazembe. The Bill, said Minister Mutsvangwa, provides for harmonisation of computer-related crime laws in the Criminal Codification Act to the Sadc Model Law on Computer Crime and Cybercrime and international best practice. She said the Bill also provides for broad and wide definitions covering both traditional computer crimes as well as network crimes committed using computers and computer networks. It deals with the admissibility of electronic evidence; the development of effective and balanced procedural instruments which enable competent authorities to gather evidence and investigate cybercrime. Another key feature in the Bill, Minister Mutsvangwa said, was a clause that regulates access to information, protection of privacy of information and processing of personal data by automated means. The Minister said the Bill also seeks to set technological and privacy standards and empowerment of consumers. When passed into law, it will provide a holistic electronic transaction regulation regime and the use of electronic contracts, electronic signatures and related electronic transaction. “This will foster international co-operation in cyber security, electronic transaction assurance and data protection safety,” said Minister Mutsvangwa. Cabinet also considered and approved the Zimbabwe Investment and Development Agency Bill. Justice, Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Ziyambi Ziyambi presented the Bill as chairman of the Cabinet Committee on Legislation. Minister Mutsvangwa said the Bill came on the backdrop of a drive to open the country for investment in line with President Mnangagwa’s mantra that Zimbabwe is open for business. “A key feature of the Bill is the establishment of the Zimbabwe Investment and Development Agency (ZIDA), which is modelled along the lines of the Rwanda Development Board as a one-stop investment centre,” she said. “ZIDA will be formed through the merging of the Special Economic Zones Authority, the Zimbabwe Investment Authority and Joint Venture Unit.” The functions of ZIDA will include the provision of one-stop investment services, establishment and regulation of special economic zones and public-private partnerships. It will also cater for planning, promotion and implementation of investment strategies, decentralisation of investment activities and to deliver investor after-care services.