The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
THE Faith for the Nation Campaign has invited all Zimbabweans to this year’s National Thanksgiving and Dedication Service tomorrow. The event, which Acting President Constantino Chiwenga is expected to attend would be held at the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) under the theme ‘Unity, Peace and Progress in 2019’. In a statement yesterday, Faith for the Nation Campaign chairman Prophet Andrew Wutawunashe said this year’s event follows President Mnangagwa’s inspirational visit to the National Thanksgiving and Dedication Service during the same time last year. “The nation experienced a providential year of God’s grace, and progress was made in all the benchmarks envisioned for the Second Republic. We’re therefore inviting people from all walks of life to join us during this important event. “This year’s gathering, which will be graced by the nation’s leadership, Zimbabweans from all walks of life, the churches of Zimbabwe, together with national, traditional, community and spiritual leaders from across the country, including guests from many parts of Africa, will give thanks to God Almighty for the progress our nation has made under the new dispensation,” said Prophet Wutawunashe. He said as the churches bring the nation before the Lord for help and grace in 2019 they will pray for the well being of the nation’s economy and blessing on families. “We’ll also rally the people to unity, peace and a satisfied sense of nationhood as we work to translate our nation’s dreams to reality, and move Zimbabwe to a place of competitive advantage in the family of nations. “Faith for the Nation Campaign is the churches’ platform for Godly, patriotic and positive nation building,” he said. Prophet Wutawunashe said Faith for the Nation Campaign was founded in 2000 as an initiative rooted in the churches, like minded groups and individuals in Zimbabwe to build faith, patriotism and hope for Zimbabwe. “It was established with people of all ages in mind to make a united effort in working and building their lives, communities and the nation, thus making Zimbabwe a blessed nation by God, and the shining jewel that her people want it to be. “Faith for the Nation Campaign was founded and inspired from God’s Word in 1 Kings 4 vs 20, and 24-25 where we see the model of a nation that was blessed by God through God’s wisdom under King Solomon,” said Prophet Wutawunashe. He said Faith for the Nation Campaign works with five pillars to promote its vision namely Godliness, unity and a sense of patriotism, peace and safety, economic opportunity for all to work for prosperity and servant leadership that respects and serves the people of Zimbabwe. – @pamelashumba1