The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter
PREPARATIONS for the Liquor Hub 10km Road Race set for December 16 are at an advanced stage with more than 50 athletes having so far registered for the event where 500 runners are targeted. Chairperson of Bulawayo Athletics Board, Manuel Mpofu, thanked the sponsors who have unveiled R50 000 for the race. “The registration is still on and we’re inviting everyone who aspires to take part to come and register before the deadline which is Saturday December 15 at 6PM. The event is meant to benefit the less privileged in society while at the same time promoting the sporting talent of the nation,” said Mpofu. The winners in the senior men and women’s categories will walk away with R5 000 each while second-placed athletes will get R3 000 with the third placed runner getting R2 000. Mpofu said the initiative will accommodate everyone who is willing to take part be it a professional or an amateur. “It is indeed a great pleasure for us to get this opportunity of holding such an inspiring event which apart from promoting our athletics will also promote the spirit of togetherness and Ubuntu. The event needs the precious presence of the whole of Bulawayo and Zimbabwe at large,” said Mpofu. He said there are selected charity organisations and groups who will benefit from the proceeds. “The people’s support and presence is the only thing that can make this event successful. There are persons out there who are in real need of help and it is up to us as citizens to stand up and work together,” Mpofu said. Registration for the race is $5 for seniors, $3 for juniors and $2 for charity walk for all age groups. Last year, Jacob Mugomeri came first in the senior men’s section ahead of Blessing Waison of Black Rhinos and Blanket Mine’s Christopher Gondwe while in the women’s category Patience Garauzive of the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services came first followed by Neviah Maganzo also of ZPCS and Zimbabwe Republic Police’s Annie Chirisa. — @DecoDecent2