The Chronicle Innocent Ruwende, Harare Bureau
President Emmerson Mnangagwa will on Wednesday next week lead a national clean-up campaign to be held under the theme “Zero Tolerance to Litter-My Environment”. On the day of the launch, it is expected that the President and other VIP guests will lead the nation in the clean-up campaign. Addressing a Press conference in Harare yesterday, Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Prisca Mupfumira urged all Zimbabweans who will participate in the clean-up to be exemplary by dressing according to the dictates of the day. “It is expected that on the day, people should come dressed for cleaning up,” she said. “The recommended dress code is as follows, dust coats, gumboots/safety shoes, gloves and face masks. It is my hope that leaders will do all they can to ensure those they lead are appropriately dressed on December 5 and all the subsequent clean-ups we shall be holding. “It is important that the day’s activities are as practical and effective as possible. We cannot afford to launch a cosmetic clean-up. While it is acknowledged that there has been a lot of build up to clean-up initiatives that has significantly contributed to a clean, safe and healthy environment, there is need to get to the pith on the 5th of December.” Minister Mupfumira said the message was that each leader was supposed to bring his or her own broom and other cleaning materials to demonstrate to all Zimbabweans that they were serious about cleaning the country. She said the ministry may assist in the provision of some of the cleaning materials but the general expectation was that leaders should lead by example and provide the resources needed in undertaking the clean-up. “Additionally, corporate executives should be reminded to spearhead the same on their premises and those that join the Presidium should also bring their brooms and other cleaning materials for the clean-up,” said Minister Mupfumira. “There is a need to enlist the participation of everyone on this day. There should be massive stakeholder involvement in the cleaning of their areas on the day. Media should cover various clean-up initiatives by various corporates, individuals and institutions on the day.” Minister Mupfumira said sustaining such a momentum will go a long way in building and making the programme a success. She said without stakeholder participation, the programme was bound to fail hence all stakeholders, countrywide should fully participate in the noble initiative and her Ministry, through the Environment Management Agency, was ready to avail any logistical support required to ensure the programme becomes a resounding success.