The Chronicle Esinathy Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter
THE Zanu-PF Youth League, which has since endorsed President Emmerson Mnangagwa as the party’s 2023 Presidential election candidate, has dedicated its Harare-Esigodini Tree Planting Walkathon to the Head of State in solidarity with the hardships he suffered during his political journey. Over 200 youths drawn from the country’s 10 provinces are taking part in the 467km Harare to Esigodini tree planting walkathon campaign. The walk is also in support of President Mnangagwa’s call for Zimbabweans to plant over 15 million trees countrywide in recognition of National Tree Planting Day which falls on the first Saturday of December. The youths, who are targeting to plant 10 000 trees countrywide, left Harare on December 5 and arrived in Bulawayo yesterday afternoon. They proceed to Esigodini this morning. On their way, they have been planting trees and conducting clean-up campaigns. Addressing the youths at Milton High School where they planted 90 trees, Bulawayo Provincial Chairperson Cde Khumbulani Mpofu said the Walkathon was a true test of loyalty and patriotism. “This programme was launched as a dedication to the President for all the struggles he faced before he assumed office. We know how our President walked miles, survived bombs and food poisoning; hence the need to come up with this initiative to show our commitment and dedication to his leadership,” he said. “Today you have showed that you are true revolutionary soldiers, ready to defend the country and its leadership. This was a true test of patriotism and loyalty to the national leadership and by so doing we are following the President’s footsteps. “As the Youth League, we have set an example to the whole nation and this is a sign of true love and dedication to our country.” The Youth League made a resolution to endorse President Mnangagwa as their Presidential candidate for 2023. “We have agreed as the League to endorse ED for 2023. We are giving him another term. We will support all the policies he has put in place to revive this country to its previous glory,” said Cde Mpofu. Addressing the same group, National Youth League Secretary for Environment and Tourism Cde Thokozile Mpofu said the party takes pride in being associated with the President’s vision to fight deforestation. “This year, we lead the nation in tree planting awareness as we walk from Harare to Esigodini for our National People’s Conference. We have taken this walk and tree-planting initiative since 2013 to restore trees that are used on a daily basis and those that are lost through natural processes such as veld fires and drought,” she said. “Tobacco curing has taken more than its fair share from our indigenous forests; hence we encourage flue-cured tobacco farmers to plant fast growing trees as a convenient renewable source of energy to sustain this foreign currency generating enterprise. “I hope this exercise will help to inspire every Zimbabwean to play their part in tree planting because it is everyone’s responsibility.” – @esinathy_essira