The Chronicle From Sydney Kawadza in Cairo, Egypt
THE Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) Company is targeting to attract at least 20 countries to participate at its 60th Edition set for April 23-17 next year. The company is exhibiting at the on-going Intra African Trade Fair in Cairo, Egypt. According to ZITF marketing and public relations manager, Ms Stella Nkomo, the company is participating at the exhibition to lure countries, companies and organisations to make the next edition their next stop in their quest to pursue investment and trading opportunities in Africa. “Just like IATF, ZITF 2019 offers unparalleled opportunities to get a snapshot view of the African market. The show will run from April 23-27 under the theme: ‘Propagating Industrial Growth Through Trade and Investment’,” she said. “Exhibiting in IATF is part of the company’s foreign exhibitors’ campaign where ZITF seeks to attract over 20 foreign nations and over 200 foreign exhibitors to their 60th trade fair next year.” More than 1 000 exhibitors and over 70 000 visitors are expected to attend while other countries expected to put on a strong showing include Nigeria, South Africa, Sudan, Cote d’Ivoire, Kenya, Ghana and numerous other signatories to the African Continental Free Trade Agreement. The IATF 2018 is running under the theme, “Transforming Africa”, which in line with the objective of the AfCFTA. It aims at increasing intra-African trade on the Internet, B2B, also known as e-biz, the exchange of products, services or information (e-commerce) between businesses, rather than between businesses and consumers. The Zimbabwean delegation is being led by Industry and Commerce Minister, Nqobizitha Mangaliso Ndlovu, and includes Special Advisor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, Ambassador Stuart Comberbach. Four Government ministries, several departments and 25 companies from Zimbabwe are also taking part in the inaugural continental trade fair. The ZITF also engaged a majority of Zimbabwean-based embassies and missions to market the show. “The company is also promoting it’s venue, the Zimbabwe International Exhibition Centre as the country’s largest purpose built facility for other exhibitions and events for organisers wanting to host their events in Africa and Zimbabwe in particular. To date, interest has been received from exhibition organisers from countries such as Tanzania and Rwanda,” said Ms Nkomo. With 60 years of experience in organising and hosting exhibitions and events, ZITF Company also seeks to profile itself as a notable organiser that is able to host events outside the country’ borders. “The objective is to be able to organise prestigious shows such as IATF on behalf of the partners just like it did, years ago, in Botswana where the company was instrumental in setting up, organising and hosting the inaugural Global Expo Botswana,” she said. This year, the ZITF attracted 753 exhibitors with 68 being foreign while 18 foreign nations participated at the premium trade fair held in Bulawayo.