The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter
BULAWAYO Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Judith Ncube has said unity of purpose is required to overcome the prevailing economic challenges.
Cde Ncube said this while addressing mourners at the Bulawayo Provincial Heroes’ Acre yesterday during the burial of three liberation war heroes, one who died this week and two others last week. She said the Government is not the sole player in the economic transformation agenda, hence everyone’s effort is of paramount importance. “Everyone is aware of the current situation in our country but it’s not for the Government only to address, it is our collective responsibility. We must subscribe and affirm to the principle that we are all equal but only differ in our responsibilities and duties as we work towards the transformation of our country into a great economy,” she said. Cde Ncube urged people to shun deception as ‘it costs the nation’. “People who deceive are like cutworms, they enter through the bottom of a seed and you only get to realise them when the whole seed has rotted. You cannot easily identify a cutworm because it destroys from within. We are calling upon everyone to be of one vision and purpose, “she said. “This is our Zimbabwe and there is no other country that will emerge to substitute it. Therefore let’s love our nation, whatever decision you make, know that though it may not directly affect you, it may affect your neighbour. If your neighbour is weak then the nation is standing on one leg.” Cde Ncube said Matabeleland North, Matabeleland South and Bulawayo Provinces are one and should unite. She bemoaned the deaths of war veterans saying it is a huge loss to the nation. Cde Ncube called upon relatives of the heroes to take good care of the families left behind. “I am worried because every week we bury a hero here and today we are burying three heroes. There are reports in my office of widows whose properties are taken following the death of their husbands. We are saying no, this is not our culture koBulawayo. Let’s respect these widows and orphans and not abuse them,” she said. Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans’ Association Bulawayo Province chairperson, Cde Cephas Ncube bemoaned the increase in the number of war veterans’ dying each week. He said the majority of them succumb to sicknesses they got during the liberation war. First to be buried yesterday was Cde Jericho Ndlovu whose liberation war name was Curtain Sibanda. Cde Ndlovu was born on September 8 in 1948 and died last week on Saturday at his homestead in Nyamandlovu. He went to Zambia in 1975 and trained at Nampundu Camp before proceeding to Tanzania for training at Morogoro. Next to be buried was Cde Douglas Mabhena whose war name was Andrew Mhlanga. He was born on June 30 in 1959 and died at his home in Cowdray Park on December 20. Cde Mabhena joined the liberation struggle in 1977, going to Zambia via Botswana for training. In 1979 he went to Libya and camped at Sebu camp. He came home during the cease fire period. Last to be buried was Cde Lovemore Moyo who was born on October 16, 1959 and died on Christmas Day at his home in Cowdray Park. In 1976, Cde Moyo, whose war name was Albert Nare, went to Zambia to join the war and in 1977 he was selected to go for military training in Angola. He was deployed in Hurungwe and Guruve. In 1980 he was integrated into the Zimbabwe National Army. — @tamary98