The Chronicle Business Reporter
IN a move meant to keep up with current technological trends, the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA), in partnership with Accoleisure (Private) Limited, has launched a tourism services mobile phone application. The technology gateway product, known as “Accoleisure”, is available on both Android and IOS operating softwares. Accoleisure (accommodation and leisure) is a mobile and internet application that provides services to tourists, travellers and revellers to convenient access. The new product helps users identify, locate, view, book tickets and make payments for online visa applications. It also provides immigration services support (in Zimbabwe) via e-visa platforms and access to accommodation facilities, recreational events, resort activities, sports, arts and culture activities, food and beverage outlets. The application has a special feature that provides access to emergency services for Sub-Saharan African tourist destination countries. The Minister of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry, Prisca Mupfumira, presided over the launch in Harare on Monday, where she stressed the need to embrace the digital revolution in marketing the country’s tourism destinations. “Tourists are better connected now than ever before and this has put increasing demand on the need to provide high quality content to satisfy the needs of these potential tourists,” said Minister Mupfumira. “We need to move with the times if we are to attract more and quality tourists in the country. Remember most of these tourists come from highly developed countries where business is virtually done in the comfort of their homes, so this is a major milestone in our tourism industry and hope it will help us achieve our goals.” Online statistics have shown that globally, tourists are now using smartphones to explore destinations and products with mobile apps now accounting for 37 percent of travellers shopping for flights and 43 percent for accommodation. It has also been noted that 90 percent of all travel is now searched online and travel decisions are based on reviews of other travellers. “In light of these developments, it is important for Zimbabwe as a destination to have its own mobile application showcasing tourism products and services. I applaud the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority and its technology partner AccoLeisure Pvt Ltd for developing the Zimbabwe Travel Guide. This application sets out to bridge the information gap between tourists and service providers and will go a long way in making Zimbabwe facilities visible to the world all the time,” said the Minister. Minister Mupfumira also used the platform to launch destination Zimbabwe promotional videos, which will be flighted on various media platforms and airlines to give Zimbabwe the necessary exposure. “The video takes you through a journey of what Zimbabwe has to offer and this is expected to stimulate the desire to visit the destination by both local and international tourists,” she said.