The Chronicle 11:40 – He says the government should continue supporting the industrialisation agenda under the SADC and COMESA programmes as well as the AU Agenda 2063 and UN sustainable development goals. Cde Mumbengegwi says the government should continue being an active member on the international stage in order to have a shared vision to achieve vision 2030 as well as attract foreign direct investment. He says government should continue with the engagement and re-engagement drive to strengthen relations with other countries and also improve the multilateral approach as opposed to the unilateral. 11:33 – Cde Mumbengegwi says the committee urges the government to further improve relations with the USA to remove the ZIDERA which continues to constrain the country’s economy. He says government should work tirelessly to market Zimbabwe as a destination of choice as well as to protect the environment. He says government should market the country as a safe tourist destination in order to attract forex. 11:30 – Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri now calls upon Cde Simbarashe Mumbengegwi to give a report on the external affairs. He says government should strengthen bilateral relations with the countries which stood by Zimbabwe urging the government to intensify its re-engagement efforts to normalise all aspects of the country. 11:15 – Cde Mathuthu says young people should be equipped with life skills in order to help build the country’s economy adding that the state should expedite the land audit to also allocate youths part of the land. He calls on the government to formalise the mining activities of youths adding that government should construct transport network to improve accessibility and penetration. He says government must establish centres of sporting excellence to encourage a health nation adding that the youth league will remain resolute to the party as he concludes his resolutions. 11:05 – Cde Lewis Mathuthu who is standing in for Cde Pupurai Togarepi is now on the podium to give resolutions on the thermatic committee of Youth Affairs. He says there’s need to acknowledge the stewardship of President and First secretary of Zanu PF Cde Emmerson Mnangagwa. He says government must empower youths reduce unemployment. He says the Youth League strongly reaffirm the endorsement of President Mnangagwa as the sole presidential candidate of the 2023 elections. He calls for stern measures to curb corruption within the party and the country at large. He says government should revive the National Youth Policy. He says resources be availed to youths to participate in economic activities of the country and create employment. 10:42 – Cde Cain Mathema who is the chairman of the liberation and heritage says Chitepo Ideological College should be cascaded to the grassroots level. He says government should revive the National Youth Policy in line with the Constitution adding that liberation heroes should be well recognised. Cde Mathema says their committee has endorsed Cde Emmerson Mnangagwa as the Zanu PF party’s presidential candidate of the 2023 harmonised elections. Imposition of candidates should not be tolerated at all costs and those who form parallel structures be suspended from the party, says Cde Mutsvangwa. She says government should establish irrigation schemes in rural areas to eradicate poverty. She says government should improve roads network for ease access to remote places and other areas adding that all roads should be tarred and widened to curb carnages. 10:39 – She says women should be given special grants in mining and the fruit and veg industry. She says the age limit for presidential candidates be raised to 52 years. Government deals with fuel dealers and come up with stiff penalties to curb the activities for land barons. 10:38 – Cde Monica Mutsvangwa takes to the podium to give resolutions on the thermatic committee of women’s affairs. She says there’s need to acknowledging the pivotal role of women in consolidating the party. Cde Mutsvangwa says resources meant for women be channeled directly to the Women’s League not through the main wing. She said there should be 50-50 representation in decision making processes. She says women should be capacitated in order to compete with the women and that primary elections be conducted in a manner that does not divide people. 10:32 – Proposes that Bulawayo and Harare Metropolitan Provinces should have provincial councils. The establishment of provincial database is essential. Mining laws should be in the context of provincial development plan to benefit the locals. 10:25 – Zanu PF elections commission to remain independent and be capacitated to ensure they carry out their duties diligently. Those who would be elevated should save the requisite period in the party structures. Chitepo Ideological College should be cascaded to the grassroots level. The party should amend the constitution that the presidential candidate should be 50 years or more. Government and Zanu PF party should adopt aero tolerance to corruption and there should be party clarity in all its aspects. No individual should hold multiple positions and the member should relinquish other positions. Party resources should be cascaded to district levels and a commission of inquiry be set to investigate why certain constituencies lose in elections. The annual people’s conference be held in August or September before the onset of the rains. 10:20 – The Zanu PF party to start preparing for the 2023 elections right now. Issuance of membership cards be decentralised to provinces and the party upholds the spirit of unity. The party starts to develop relevant strategies to encourage youths in the Youth League to affiliate with Zanu PF. To extend the term for women’s parliamentary quota. 10:15 – Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri invites the chairmen from the six thematic groups to give out their resolutions. Cde Munyaradzi Machacha is the first presenter on the state of the party. Zanu PF national chairman Cde Oppah Muchinguri Kashiri takes to the podium and she observes all protocol. She gives a recap of what happened yesterday at the conference chief among them being the endorsement of President Emmerson Mnangagwa as the party’s sole presidential candidate for the 2023 elections. We are back for the second day of the Zanu-PF Annual National People’s Conference in Esigodini. Updates are coming up shortly.   