The Chronicle Munyaradzi Musiiwa, Midlands Correspondent
All is set for Chimurenga music guru, Thomas Mapfumo’s show at Gweru Golf Club tonight. Mapfumo returns to the stage after a long hiatus from local shows. Mukanya as he is lovingly known in the music circles, is on a Peace Tour which will see him perform in nine different cities and towns. For his Gweru show, he will be joined on stage by Gary Tight and Gweru bands House of Stone, Samukoko and On One. One of the show promoters, Denforn Kasambira said all was in place for the event. “We’re already here in Gweru to ensure that the show is flawless. Mukanya is an international artiste who’s also very professional so we don’t want to disappoint neither him nor his fans. “I’ve inspected the venue and I’m impressed. I’ve also worked on security issues and I’m confident that there’ll be tight security at the show,” said Kasambira. Man Soul Jah, one of the surviving Pan-African artistes of the last century who continues to make amazing reggae songs from home, is reminiscent of the times that he used to attend, enjoy and get inspired by Thomas Mapfumo’s performance. The Mr Government hit-maker, born Joseph Nhara, looks back with nostalgia and at the same time is excited by the fact that the Blacks Unlimited chose to begin their national Peace Tour in Gweru. He saluted Mukanya, describing him as an epitome of traditional cultural contemporary creativity. “Thomas Mapfumo is the epitome of traditional cultural contemporary creativity. His combination of modern instruments and traditional rhythms with a heart rending plaintiff and hard hitting lyrics makes him a force to be celebrated by all conscious Africans. “His torch-bearing activity in conscious music makes him not only Bob Marley’s peer, but his successor in uplifting the downtrodden and speaking truth to power. His unflinching truths make him not only a joy to listen to, but an overwhelming presence when in concert. One needs to see Thomas Mapfumo live and understand what I’m talking about.” Added Man Soul Jah: “I as a supporter of indigenous arts and global unity find Thomas Mapfumo to embody all that is noble in being an artiste and a pan African defender of the rights of all. Chimurenga Music is indeed liberation music, a must listen for all concerned with the place of Africa today and presence in the spectrum of artistic human endeavour.” Meanwhile, Mapfumo who arrived in Harare on Wednesday evening has promised Gweru fans fireworks when he performs at the Golf Club tonight. Mukanya who will be performing in the City of Progress after 14 years, said the Peace Tour, other than preaching the gospel of peace and unity in the country, was meant to reunite him with his local fans. He said those attending the event tonight should look forward to new tracks which will be mixed with yesteryear hits. “I came here earlier this year and performed at the Glamis Stadium in Harare. However, I didn’t manage to meet all my fans in the country so this time around, I’ll try to meet as many fans as possible in different areas,” Mukanya said. “I’ve no doubt that we’ll have a good time together as I’ve a lot of new offerings that people haven’t heard.” Mukanya said the tour was also meant to safeguard culture and prevent moral decadence. “The Peace Tour is a bira (traditional celebration) where we’ll be celebrating our culture. Our culture is our identity and we should preserve it. People see us through our culture,” he said.