The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls
VICTORIA FALLS residents have started advertising accommodation space in their private homes as they seek to cash in on the huge demand for accommodation during the upcoming Zambezi Lager Victoria Falls Carnival. With mainstream hotels and lodges (which had given first preference to international guests) already fully booked for the period (December 29 to 31), those who had not booked for accommodation for the three-day event will have to do with staying in private homes. A few lucky ones will be accommodated at the camping sites available in the resort town such Shoestrings, Shearwater Explorers’ Village, Rest Camp and N1 Hotel. Some of these premises also provide space for those with own camping material. As organisers of the rebranded carnival have said they expect a bigger turnout this year, local party lovers should also expect to dig deeper into their pockets as service providers are continuously adjusting their prices. Those who booked for activities, accommodation and meals well in advance will be smiling as prices have drastically gone up. Some activities and meals are being paid for in foreign currency only which will be a challenge for most locals who do not have access to forex. Carnival spokesperson Darryn Lee said: “Most of the accommodation in Vic Falls is already fully booked, but camping options are still available. We have a number of camping and luxury accommodation options every year which sell out very quickly but for now, we still have camping options available. “Many attend the carnival year-on-year to support African talent and enjoy the carnival’s many adventure activities on offer,” he said. Over the years, tour operators have been offering combos and massive discounts to those who book early but this year, it’s different as there are no special offers in sight so far. “There’s no package I know of as yet. I haven’t heard from the operators and I’d need to check on that,” said Employers Association for the Tourism and Safari Operators president Clement Mukwasi. Activities that carnival attendees can indulge themselves in during the carnival include bungee jumping, bridge slide and swing, bridge tour, white water rafting, steam train party, helicopter flights, tour of the Rainforest, elephant ride, cruise, game drive, croc cage dive and walk with lions. Fees for these activities are, however, categorised with locals paying in local payment methods while international clients pay in forex. The Flight of Angels costs about $150 to $200 (any currency) for locals while foreign tourists will be expected to pay between $300 and $560. Bungee jumping is pegged at $160 for locals and $320 for foreigners while the popular boat cruise costs approximately $80 for foreigners and half the price for locals depending on service provider. Usually, carnivalistas sample activities on the 30th of December as they refresh from the bush party jamming which takes place on the first day, December 29. A snap survey by Chronicle Showbiz around some eateries in Vic Falls showed that even meal specials are not on offer this year. “We used to give discounts for meals to those who book as a group, but that’s no longer there. What we still have is only a commission for an agent who brings a group,” said an employee at one of the fast food outlets. Many restaurants especially the up-market ones have of late been adjusting prices upwards in preparation for the holidays and carnival. Before the price hikes, meals at up-market restaurants were pegged between $16 and $25 but now, the meals in some instances have gone up by up to 150 percent. These restaurants have, however, retained their initial prices but these are now in US dollars only, making it a bonus for those with foreign currency. Some eateries are demanding proof of identity from one member of any group that books for meals to be able to pay using local methods otherwise payment is charged in foreign currency. As such, it is advisable for locals to carry their IDs always lest they be charged in forex. Milkshakes, Krushers and desserts cost between $5 and $10 with a Streetwise 2 costing $9. Burgers start from $7.50 and soft drinks are $2. Local beers start from $3 on average depending on the place of buying. A plate of sadza or rice costs an average $5 at some restaurants and deli supermarkets. To try and beat this price madness and to enjoy their stay in the resort town, it is best that locals planning to attend the event source US dollars as it will prove way cheaper for them than using Bonds/Swipe/EcoCash. With all forms of payment acceptable, general tickets to the carnival are being sold on the carnival’s website for $90 for a three-day pass and $165 for VIP entrance. Two-day tickets are going for $65 with a one-day costing $50. On December 29, the carnival festivities will kick off with an African carnival train party at Jafuta Siding with three trains expected to ferry people starting at 4PM. On December 30, the party will move to the Vic Falls Primary School, a venue which has become the home of the carnival for the Electric Safari Concert pitting artistes from the region. December 31 will be the crossover New Year’s Eve party with music from Freshly Ground, Black Motion, Flying Bantu, Lady Zamar, Prince Kaybee and BCUC. — @ncubeleon.