The Chronicle Chronicle Reporters
HUNDREDS of people yesterday heeded President Mnangagwa’s call for a national clean-up campaign at various areas in the country. The event is running under the theme “Zero Tolerance to Litter — My Environment, My Pride.” In Bulawayo, Provincial Affairs Minister Judith Ncube led the city in cleaning the province, urging people to set aside two hours every month to thoroughly clean their surroundings. Speaking during the clean-up exercise Minister Ncube said a clean environment helps eradicate deadly diseases like cholera. “We are pleased to be part of this programme which will see all citizens taking part in cleaning the environment. We should therefore, as suggested by President Mnangagwa, use every first Friday of the month to dedicate two hours to clean our surroundings,” she said. Mrs Novuyo Mathonsi from the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) said investing in a clean environment was important for businesses in the sector. “I encourage other organisations to do their best in ensuring that the environment is clean because that contributes a lot to agriculture, our main source of food. They should also consider investing in waste management systems that will enable the community to recycle,” she said. The Environmental Management Agency (EMA) coordinated the event with support from institutions that include Plan International, Zesa, Bulawayo City Council, National University of Science and Technology (Nust), Zimbabwe Republic Police, Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services and ZTA. The main clean-up exercise in Matabeleland North was held in Hwange town where Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Richard Moyo, led the proceedings. Various government departments including Zimbabwe Republic Police, Zimbabwe National Army, Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services, Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority, National Aids Council as well as organisations such as Painted Dog, Nyaradzo Funeral Services, Hwange Colliery Company, Hwange Rural District Council, Hwange Local Board and school children took part in the exercise coordinated by EMA. The clean-up started around shops and banks in the Central Business District and proceeded to Number 1 bus rank where the Minister joined and picked up litter near Lwendulu council offices before touring exhibition stands at Old Grounds where people were gathered. Before reading President Mnangagwa’s speech Minister Moyo implored citizens to practise personal hygiene to prevent unnecessary loss of life due to dirt-related diseases. EMA Matabeleland North provincial manager, Mrs Chipo Mpofu-Zuze, challenged local authorities to come up with by-laws that enhance cleanliness. She said there should be bins at strategic places for people to throw litter. Clean-up exercises were also carried in all districts around the province. In Victoria Falls the Municipality partnered with the ZTA, Green Line Africa and tourism players to clean the resort town. In Gwanda residents turned up in numbers to mark the clean up launch. Gwanda Assistant District Administrator, Mr Thulani Moyo read the President’s speech. Speaking at the event Gwanda Residents’ Association secretary, Mr Bekezela Maduma urged residents to embrace the clean-up launch and use it as a programme to uplift the face of the town. “Gwanda Town was once known as the cleanest town and that is the status that we want to revive. It’s up to each and every resident within this town to maintain hygiene in order to make this initiative a success. Keeping this town clean will benefit most of all us the residents,” he said. Residents took to the streets to the clean up the town. In Masvingo a huge crowd attended the provincial clean-up at Garikai Market. The event started with the cleaning of the central business district, led by Minister of State for provincial affairs Ezra Chadzamira and was attended by church organisations, schools, Zimbabwe Open University, Great Zimbabwe University and Reformed Church University. Minister Chadzamira read President Mnangagwa’s speech after taking part in the cleaning of the market alongside service chiefs, university vice chancellors and Masvingo City Council, Mayor Clr Collen Maboke.