The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Acting Sports Editor
A militant ZPC Kariba supporters group has vowed to make the club ungovernable if the leadership of the present executive is retained via unconstitutional means by the company. According to the club constitution’s office bearers must be elected by members and the current regime of chairman Tungamirai Mazarire came into office in 2016 and their terms come to an end early next month. It has, however, emerged that some senior company executive wants to usurp the powers of the constitution and extend the Mazarire tenure for another three years. “We will make sure the club becomes ungovernable if they retain these guys. We have been informed that plans are already underway to do that and we are ready to throw spanners,” said one of the supporters who requested for anonymity for fear of victimisation at his place of employment. Last week, supporters’ club chairman Gift Mlala said they were against plans by the company executive to appoint the current executive against the constitutional provisions which call for elections. “It is in this context that we propose that the process of selecting candidates to compete for the posts be allowed to commence. “We are recommending that on each executive committee position, management approves three candidates from which the affiliated club members will elect one most suitable candidate to fill the position. “Precisely for the posts of chairman, vice-chairman, secretary and the treasurer, members interested to contest for positions must submit their football curriculum vitae. “We are against the idea that one automatically gains a club membership status by being an employee of Zesa Holdings. We recommend that this be disallowed in the forthcoming executive committee elections since it is a team based in the community,” wrote Mlala. The football project has been met with mixed fortunes since their grand entry into the elite league in 2014. They had a fairy tale run in their debut season when they almost lifted the Castle Lager Premiership title only to falter in their last match and finished a close second to giants Dynamos.