The Chronicle Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter
THE stage is set for the fifth edition of the Sports Leaders’ Institute of Zimbabwe (SLIZ) Summer Camp that starts in Nyanga tomorrow, with a massive 400 participants registering for the three-day symposium. SLIZ president Russell Mhiribidi said representatives from educational institutions, colleges, universities, secondary and primary schools, as well as sports officers from government arms such as the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services and police will attend the three-day workshop. Also attending the camp are sports associations and football clubs officials who have a keen interest in athletes’ development as well as improving their brands. Mhiribidi said the conference which will be more interactive compared to past symposiums will see participants identifying and coming up with solutions to problems bedevilling the sports industry. He said they expect to come up with tangible solutions to help the sports industry’s growth. “Everything is set for the conference which has received a record 400 entries, an indication that stakeholders have faith in the symposiums that we organise. This also serves to rubber stamp our motto which is “Leading Game Changers’ in the country’s sports industry. “Besides the majority being Zimbabwean participants, we have received registration from Zambians who have seen value in the Sliz product. “We have come up with topics that will help local administrators develop sport and keep up with global sports management trends.For this camp, it will be more interactive with participants coming up with solutions to the problems or challenges that the sport industry is facing,” said Mhiribidi. Musunza Sombwa from the Olympic Youth Development Centre of Zambia will lead the Zambian delegation. National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe president Tendai Tagara and representatives of the Sports and Recreation Commission (SRC) are expected to attend the camp. The organisation, which is recognised for playing an active role in sports industry development in Zimbabwe by the SRC, has also been in the forefront speaking against age cheating. At almost all the programmes that they have held, they have taken time to remind participants about waste of resources by promoting age cheating. — @ZililoR