The Chronicle Andile Tshuma on Health There’s life after the festive season. The catch phrase “keDecember” seems to have gotten all and sundry into a frenzy. However, as people prepare for holidaying and merry-making, it is good to remember that there is life after the holiday season. December has come, finally. Time flies indeed. It feels as though it’s a few months back when we were making New Year resolutions and I’m almost certain a significant number of people had resolved top start a healthy eating, healthy living revolution. How far have you gone? I can’t answer this one myself but what I can say is that this Christmas I’m planning to eat healthier. While it may be good to indulge a little, it is wise to keep your health in check and avoid souring the festive mood with a trip to the emergency room, remember these days it’s forex everywhere, so don’t allow a craving for an extra helping of fudge and cakes cost you those rands, Euros, pounds or dollars you are saving up for that one thing you want. Holidays are a perfect time to enjoy without feeling guilty. It’s good to get out of the boring eating routines, the crash diets. If you always eat like a rabbit, not because you are vegan but because you are trying so hard to cut down your calorie intake, holiday can be so tempting. The teas, lunches and perennial dinners allow you to heat the system once, twice and for the umpteenth time. However, if you have eating disorders and are battling serious wars with food, it is wiser to stay disciplined during this time as it is not so easy getting back to the routine after a month long period of festivities and feasting. During this time, most ladies drive around armed with Tupperware in their cars, walk around with a handbag filled with the entire Tupperware range so as to take some delicacies home from parties. I’m not sure if is good or bad etiquette to go to parties fully armed to raid platters of leftovers, but let’s be real, people do it. But do you really need all that food? December is a time when we all eat with a guilt-free conscience. We don’t mind two three or four extra servings of our favourite dishes. But this is the time most people get sick as well, bloated runny tummies, food poisoning, especially from poorly stored leftovers. While we enjoy our food during this time, I think we must be responsible and take just as much as our bodies can bear. I’m not saying you must turn down your aunt’s favourite fudge recipe or those doughnuts from your pastor’s wife. However, diving into the whole platter could mess up more than just your sweet tooth. If you are diabetic, stick to the rules, indulge a little but stay in the right lane. No amount of merry making is worth dicing with your health. Trips to hospitals and clinics are not nice during this time of the year. I think a good way to watch what you eat during holiday season is to always eat something healthy before leaving home for a party. If you are getting a lot of invites for multiple events, it is highly probable that there will be lots of tempting foods served so it’s best to eat something wholesome and healthy before leaving home, so that at the party, you only get to eat what you really crave and avoid sampling every single platter available. Alcohol and drug abuse are really rife at this point and a doctor I spoke to says most people come to the emergency room after bingeing on alcohol and drugs. Dr Rudo Gumbo, a medical practitioner I had the opportunity to chat with in social circles says most teenagers tend to get intoxicated and fall sick this season and get involved in risky behaviour. She said they treat a lot of youths for STIs due to the reckless behaviour such as unprotected sex following binge drinking and consumption of intoxicating substances. “We advise youths to be responsible at this time as we deal with a lot of issues that often stem from recklessness,” she said. Dr Gumbo advised the elderly to also avoid gross consumption of red meat and alcohol as it often leads to problems such as gout. She also urged them not to default on taking drugs for various conditions as it had detrimental effects on health. “People eat a lot of braaied meat and alcohol a bit too much. However, this is bad as it causes gout,” she said. She advised the public to spend within their means as people tend to suffer from stress and depression in January after spending beyond their means at this time. “Christmas spending becomes a health problem when we have to prescribe medication for stress when ends are not meeting in January after reckless spending influenced by the holiday fever ,” said the doctor. So January disease is really a disease that needs a doctor’s attention if people fail to stay in their lane of spending during the holiday. It sounds silly but give it some thought. Have a happy month of festivities and please remember that fun is not defined by over indulgence. There is a long life waiting beyond the brief holiday season. Don’t spoil your season by having to brush shoulders with the docs. Remember to avoid driving if you have been drinking alcoholic beverages, and for your safety, do not be driven by someone who has been drinking. A little thrill is not worth your limb, it is therefore good to enjoy the holidays responsibly. — @andile_tshuma