The Chronicle Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau
WHILE most people are enjoying the holidays throughout the country, it is a different story for Dynamos legend George “Mastermind” Shaya, whose health continues to trouble him and his wife Egnes yesterday made an emotional appeal for assistance. The five-time Soccer Star of the Year award winner has been battling ill-health for quite sometime now and although he has been getting better lately, things took a turn last week when he complained of painful legs. A visit by our Harare Bureau to his home in Glen Norah A yesterday revealed a sad scenario as Shaya’s wife narrated his ordeal. “He just screamed and I thought something had bitten him but he thought it was cramp. Since then it’s been getting worse. “He is supposed to go for an X-ray and the doctor spoke of radiotherapy. He suggested he goes for the X-ray first then they will see what the problem is. They are suspecting that it might be deep vein thrombosis. But he needs to go for the X-ray first,” Egnes said. In fact, Shaya needs to see a specialist doctor and they need to raise US$130 for the doctor to attend to him. “As soon as I get the money I have to do it and soonest, especially when the legs have started swelling. I am not safe because I don’t know what it is. I started noticing the swelling two days ago. He is struggling to walk,” said Egnes. She pointed out that the football legend has been on a recovery path until last week when his health started deteriorating again. “He has been improving. He had a bad cough some time ago when I got $80 from ZIFA and I took him to the doctor for treatment and it was getting better. So I thought he was now alright but then that’s when he started having problems with his legs. “The most important thing for us right now is his medication. I am appealing for assistance to get him treated, not only to former players but even to the Government,” she said. Things may not be well for the couple with Egnes also narrating how difficult life has been for them as they struggle with day-to-day basics such as meeting their other bills and putting food on the table. But the couple remain strong together and positive. While it was reported last year that ZIFA had injected an initial $3 000 towards the creation of the George Shaya Benefit Fund, in a move to ease the football legend’s access to treatment, his wife revealed they have not been getting much assistance. And some of the well-wishers that were helping them before have also stopped assisting. “They (ZIFA) pay electricity for $30 a month which cannot last for the whole month. There isn’t much coming from ZIFA. “Let me mention Peter Ndlovu, he used to give me $120 every month but since ZIFA said they are now taking care of us, he has since stopped, I am just thinking he thought that now we are okay. “I don’t want to say much because I will end up sounding ungrateful. Sometimes people think that I am not appreciating their efforts,” Egnes said. Shaya did not have much to say except that any form of assistance will be useful as he hopes to get better again. “I don’t have much to say. I think there was a story written before… So any help I don’t mind,” said the football legend who is now well into his mid-70s.