The Chronicle Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu/Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporters
ONE case of cholera has been reported in Gwanda after the patient travelled from Bulawayo, with new suspected cases countrywide standing at more than 200. In an interview, Matabeleland South Provincial Medical Director, Dr Rudo Chikodzore, confirmed the Gwanda case which was recorded on Tuesday evening at Gwanda Provincial Hospital. She said the patient, a tout on the Bulawayo-Gwanda Road, was in a stable condition. Dr Chikodzore said a rapid response team had been deployed to trace the source of the disease in order to contain it. “I can confirm that we recorded one case of cholera in Gwanda on Tuesday. A rapid diagnostic test came out positive and we are now awaiting microscopy results to further confirm but we are certain that it’s a case of cholera. The patient is admitted at Gwanda Provincial Hospital and is in a stable condition and I can assure you that we have the situation under control. “The patient is a tout operating the Bulawayo- Gwanda route and is from Zhukwe area in Gwanda. He started suffering from diarrhoea while he was on his way from Bulawayo on Monday and went home. He was brought to hospital on the following day. A rapid response team has gone to his homestead to conduct an assessment of the water and sanitation conditions as well as examining his family and those who came into contact with him. Investigations into this case are still underway,” she said. Dr Chikodzore said they were trying to ascertain the source of the disease but they suspect that it did not originate from Gwanda. She said the patient is suspected to have contracted the disease because of his line of work where he gets into contact with people from different areas. She said the province was on high alert for any other cases of cholera. Dr Chikodzore said they were going to set up cholera treatment camps at the venue of this year’s Zanu-PF National People’s Conference to be held in Esigodini next week. Dr Chikodzore urged members of the public to exercise general hygiene at all times to prevent cases of cholera. More than 50 people died of cholera in September after drinking contaminated water in Harare. — @DubeMatutu