The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
Clubs have been urged to embrace online registration for players in order to benefit from developmental fees. The call was made by Zifa Bulawayo province board member Allan Mpofu in his keynote address during the Lobengula Rovers end of year awards ceremony recently. According to mysports.co.zw, Mpofu, a former fiery wrestler, said by embracing the online registration clubs stood to benefit from compensation or developmental fees as enshrined in Fifa statutes once the player gets professional and is snapped by bigger clubs. “I have heard the list of players the club has produced yet you have picked little in terms of compensation fees. “It’s painful that after using your own resources, the big boys come and snatch your players. This must stop hence the need for Lobengula Rovers and all the other Junior clubs have to embark on online registration,” said Mpofu. Turning to administrators, Mpofu said there was a need to understand the main objective of junior football which he said some administrators seemed too keen on achieving results more than dedicating their resources on development. “We see a lot of cheating in junior leagues largely because of the pressure which coaches are put under by some administrators. Coaches then resort to using over aged players so as to please their employers which is not good for our football. As administrators let’s allow the coaches to develop these boys instead of being success hungry to the detriment of developing the youngster,” said Mpofu. “We need to address the problem of age cheating and this should start with directors refraining from putting pressure on the coaches to win games. I was happy when the vice president said the major aim of the club is to develop and I did not see where he said the aim is to win.” According to mysports.co.zw, Lobengula Rovers FC (juniors) trains and plays at the Lobengula Rugby Grounds popularly known as eRugby. It was once in partnership with the now defunct New West City and went on to produce players like Rahman Kutsanzira, Innocent Kutsanzira, Zibusiso Sibanda, Warren Dube and most recently Arthur Musiyiwa (Bulawayo Chiefs) and Vincent Moyo(Highlanders). Each of the registered 63 players in the U14, U16 and U18 received a certificate of appreciation for completing the season and there were also individual awards in each age category.