The Chronicle Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter
THE education sector should play a critical role in the Second Republic’s social development and transformation agenda, a senior Government official has said. Officiating at the closing ceremony for the National Association of Schools Inspectors and Directors (Nasid) on Tuesday, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education Mrs Tumisang Thabela urged players in the sector to fully embrace Government’s Transitional Stabilisation Programme (TSP). “His Excellency, President Mnangagwa, has pronounced the vision for an upper-middle income economy by year 2030 which focuses on sustainable development to make sure the country doesn’t leave anyone behind. “As a result, focus will be on the social services sector to which we belong. The social services sector is key to the element of sustainable development and we’re called upon as the education sector to produce kids who will leave school with knowledge and skills to contribute meaningfully to the economy,” said Mrs Thabela. She challenged educators to ensure that children leave school with knowledge and skills to contribute meaningfully to the economy. “We have a critical role to ensure that education eradicates poverty. Education should be at the fore of social development and vision 2030. This vision is in line with the UN 2030 agenda for sustainable development and its 17 SDGs where as a Ministry we are informed by SDG 4 which seeks to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promotion of lifelong learning opportunities for every child to reach their potential,” said Mrs Thabela. The Permanent Secretary challenged educators to embrace TSP. “TSP views education as a key to poverty eradication and a vehicle to producing a skilled workforce as it supports provision of education for all, non-formal education, calls for a relevant education hence need for dialogue with industry to remain relevant,” she added. Mrs Thabela urged educators to implement peace education, tolerance of diversity and fight all forms of corruption. She said it is imperative for the education sector to accept measures being introduced by Government to turn around the economy. The Permanent Secretary said her vision for the education sector is based on teamwork, accountable service delivery, professionalism and robust partnerships and networks with key stakeholders among others. Nasid president, Mr Gabriel Mhuma, who is the Provincial Education Director for Mashonaland West said there is need for partnerships with the private sector. He said the association will soon submit to Government recommendations based on researches conducted by respective provinces for consideration towards implementation of the competence-based curriculum among other things. The theme for the conference which started on Monday was “Unlocking the potential of the education inspectorate in implementing and managing the competence-based curriculum.” — @ncubeleon.