The Chronicle Michael Magoronga, Midlands Correspondent
FAST-rising local rhumba artiste, Juntal, says he has missed out on a number of foreign gigs after show promoters indicated that they cannot cater for his bloated band. Harare-based Juntal (real name Farai Serima) is the frontman of an 18-member ensemble named Afromix Band. In an interview on the sidelines of a well-choreographed gig at Gulez Gardens in Kwekwe recently, the self-proclaimed rhumba king said he was failing to break into the regional market because promoters complained about the size of his band. “I’ve had challenges with promoters who ask me to trim my band so that they can accommodate me. I cannot do that because every member of my band plays a unique part and if I cut, I’ll be compromising on quality,” explained Juntal. “I then end up deciding not to attend the shows completely.” The Mutupo/Shekede hitmaker said he recently called off a tour to the United Kingdom as well as other regional shows after the promoters indicated that his band was too big. “In November, we failed to go to the UK because they had asked me to trim the band to about nine people. I asked myself who I’d leave and not compromise my set. I realised I couldn’t leave anyone without compromising the quality of my band,” he said. Juntal, however, said he was glad to have finally found promoters who have agreed to host him and his full band. He has since lined up shows in South Africa and Botswana. “I’ll be in South Africa for five shows before I go to Botswana. I’m happy that I found promoters who understand me better and I pray that we find the same in the UK so that we don’t starve our fans in those places.” Because of this rejection from music promoters in foreign countries, Juntal says he has resorted to making an impression in the local showbiz industry with several shows lined up across the country this festive season. In Kwekwe, he gave a good account of himself when he shared the stage with Sulumani Chimbetu. He left fans hungry for more with his well polished choreography explaining why he does not want to travel with a depleted band.