The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter
THE Ministry of Women Affairs, Community, Small and Medium Enterprises in conjunction with some non-governmental organisations (NGOs) have embarked on a countrywide training programme for women in leadership. The leadership training that targets all the 10 provinces is informed by a needs assessment that was conducted to find out issues that hinder women from taking up decision-making and leadership positions. The qualitative research was conducted using the stratified sampling technique of women aspiring to be leaders and those in leadership positions in the private, industrial and public sector. The research revealed that unavailability of gender policies in organisations and sexual harassment are some factors that hinder women from becoming effective leaders compared to their male counterparts. Provincial heads and representatives of the ministry from all provinces were trained in Harare and they have started holding leadership training workshops in their respective areas. In an interview, Women Affairs, Community, Small and Medium Enterprises Minister Cde Sithembiso Nyoni said women at workplaces face various forms of abuse but they fail to report because they are not empowered enough. “Some of the challenges women face include sexual harassment, emotional abuse, use of stereotypical language and judgment. Women lose their self esteem and fail to deliver their duties,” she said. Cde Nyoni said women with disabilities also suffer segregation at workplaces. “This is a cause for concern because if you are harassed you cannot work effectively. We are empowering women to be able to report all forms of abuse at work,” she said. Cde Nyoni encouraged women to start networking with others and come up with groups that advocate against gender-based violence at workplaces. Meanwhile, Bulawayo conducted its leadership training in the city with delegates from Government offices, civil society organisations, Bulawayo City Council and other organisations, on Tuesday. The seminar generated by a consortium of the Ministry, Women Coalition of Zimbabwe (WCOZ) and HIVOS Southern Africa saw women being trained in leadership, management and conflict and peace resolutions. Facilitators at the workshop were the Provincial Development Officer for Bulawayo Metropolitan Province Mrs Dominica Muringi, Mrs Tsitsi Phiri and WCOZ forum chair Miss Patronela Tshuma. Government officials said there is need to expose women to leadership opportunities and positions so that they may compete with their male counterparts at their workplaces despite of gender constructions. “There is a need to minimise the perpetration of patriarchy in communities as well as to name and shame perpetrators of discrimination at workplaces. There is need to encourage women to take up leadership positions. Leadership skills are to be implemented at ECD level so that the upcoming generation can understand that men and women are both capable to lead,” said a Government official. — @tamary98