The Chronicle Tichaona Zindoga, Harare Bureau
Zimbabwe is committed to running a transparent and accountable administration and will not depart from the standard set by President Emmerson Mnangagwa, a senior official has said. Mr Nick Mangwana, who is the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services said this yesterday explaining that the Commission of Inquiry into the August 1 post-election violence in Zimbabwe led by former South African President Kgalema Montlanthe, was an example of the tenets of accountability and transparency underpinning the Second Republic. The Montlanthe Commission, a panel of international and local experts, concluded public hearings last week and submitted an executive summary of findings to President Mnangagwa pending finalisation of its report. Mr Mangwana clarified that there would be no departure from the spirit that the President had approached the unfortunate incident, which put a dent on the free and fair elections held on July 30. “The President instituted an inquiry to make public hearings for the sake of accountability and transparency and to help bring closure to the families of the victims of the violence of the 1st of August,” said Mr Mangwana. “Therefore in line with the standard he has set to lead an accountable and transparent Government, he will treat the report and outcome of the Montlanthe inquiry using the same standard,” he added. Mr Mangwana’s clarification comes amid indications from some quarters that the President would treat the report from the inquiry as secret, eliciting worry from stakeholders and the international community. On Monday, British Minister of State for the Department for International Development, Jointly with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Ms Harriet Baldwin urged the Commission to report its findings in a “transparent and timely manner”. She said: “We welcomed the establishment of the independent Commission of Inquiry to investigate the violence against civilians in the post-election period. The Commission must report its findings in a transparent and timely manner.” Ms Baldwin said this in response to a question in the House of Commons by Jim Cunningham (Labour, Coventry South) on the UK’s assessment of the political and security situation in Zimbabwe. Ms Baldwin noted that peace was prevailing in Zimbabwe. “Following early August violence, which left at least six people dead, the security situation in Zimbabwe has remained calm,” she said.