The Chronicle Allen Khumalo, Sports Reporter
TWENTY-TWO coaches graduated with International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) Technical Officials Education and Certification System (TOECS) Level 1 coaching certificates in a coaching clinic that ended in Bulawayo yesterday. The five-day coaching course held at White City Stadium saw coaches undergoing practical and theoretical lessons followed by an exam on Sunday. The coaching clinic was conducted by IAAF certified facilitators Enias Nhoro and Mirirai Madhaka. Bulawayo Athletics Board (Bab) chairman Manuel Mpofu said he was happy with the turnout for the programme organised by the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe (Naaz). “The course was a huge success with 22 aspiring coaches graduating today (yesterday). What made it interesting is that we had one participant, Mokenti Letsoma, who came from Botswana to be part of this programme. This shows that other countries trust us to train their coaches and as we are starting a new season in 2019, we expect these coaches to implement everything they were taught in this course,” said Mpofu. The goal of TOECS is to improve the level of athletics officiating around the world by creating a basic level of officiating skills as well as providing participants with theoretical and practical training required to enable them to officiate at national and international competitions. Meanwhile, Mpofu said 23 coaches are taking part in a two-week Coaches Education and Certification Systems (CECS) Level 1 course, which started on Saturday at White City Stadium. The CECS Level 1 is structured to develop skills to organise and prepare kids’ athletics for 13-15 year olds. Coaches -Kuvarega Brighton Mapfumo, Christina Makahamadze, Andrew Simbarashe Mahobvera, Elias Maposa, Ncelan Mandeya, Israel Bonderemazani, Rovodzai Mutoda, Alice Matara, Munyaradzi Chapindura, Benedictor Muzvidziwa, Lindah Mapamaonde, Bhekaphambili Abigail Mlangeni, Mariet Kim, Sithembile Banda, Juliah Chiduku, Langton Mbaiwa, Ananias Mupayikwa, Tapiwa Chinembiri, Bridget Jonhera, Caroline Dube, Wadzanai Muketiwa, Moketi Letsoma