The Chronicle Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau
THE Young Warriors are on the verge of writing another success story at the Mopani Copper Mines Under-20 Championships when they clash with defending champions South Africa this afternoon in Kitwe, Zambia. The national Under-20 soccer side will be chasing their seventh title at the youth tournament, having won it six times already. Zimbabwe last won the Under-20 Championships in 2007 when they beat Zambia in the final and they seem to be on track to register one of their best campaigns in the recent years if they beat South Africa this afternoon. On their way to the final, the Young Warriors dismissed Zambia 2-1 in the semi-finals on Tuesday at Nkana Stadium. They return to action at the same venue this afternoon facing another tough opponent in South Africa, who will be out to retain the championship. Both Zimbabwe and South Africa are six-time champions. They are among the most successful countries in the tournament led by Zambia who lead with 11 titles. Zimbabwe have so far lost just one game against Angola in their last Group C game. Despite losing to Angola, Zimbabwe topped their group and went on to beat hosts Zambia in the semi-finals on Tuesday to advance to the final. It was a fruitful outing for the Young Warriors, coming from behind to win 2-1 against the hosts and they will be hoping to carry the momentum into today’s game. The Young Warriors will have to be on the top of their game today considering that their opponents have also had a good run in this tournament and are yet concede a goal. Among the players to look out for today is Lyle Foster who has netted four goals for his side since the tournament started. South Africa, who were drawn in Group B against Mauritius and eSwatini, won both matches on their way to the semi-finals where they edged Angola 1-0. Addressing the media during the post-match press conference on Tuesday, Young Warriors’ coach Bekithemba Ndlovu said it’s not going to be an easy match as South Africa have been doing well in the past two editions of the competition compared to Zimbabwe but he expressed confidence in his team. “I think now that we are in the final and playing the defending champions, again it’s not easy because they have been there and for us I think it’s our first time (in two years). “I was here last time with the boys when we played in the Cosafa tournament and we did not go beyond the first round but now we are in the finals… But I know the character of my boys, they are fighters and they won’t let it just slip like that when they are there,” said Ndlovu. Zimbabwe will be pinning their hopes on striker Delic Murimba, who has also been on target four times for the Young Warriors. They also have Tatenda Tumba, who has won the man-of-the-match award twice, Blessing Nyamuzihwa, with a brace so far, and captain Andrew Mbeba. The Young Warriors would want to emulate the senior national team that won the Cosafa title in June, extending their record from five to six victories when they beat Zambia in the final in South Africa. The third play-off will feature Zambia and Angola. Speaking to the media, South Africa’s coach Thabo Senong said they are looking at building from the good performance they have had so far. “Zimbabwe has had an excellent run in this tournament, they have brought a very good team with good individuals, especially in attack, and we just have to respect them, plan very well to play against them. (We also need to) analyse them thoroughly and come up with a good game-plan so that we can achieve our objective. But I am still very proud of the boys just to be part of the final. “At the end of the day, development will be the winner. But we will leave everything on the pitch to make sure that we make our country proud,” said Senong.