The Chronicle Fidelis Munyoro, Harare Bureau
President Mnagagwa has called for unity among party members ahead of Zanu-PF’s 17th Annual National People’s Conference set for next week at Mzingwane High School, Esigodini, in Matabeleland South province. Addressing the media after Zanu-PF’s politburo meeting in Harare yesterday, party national spokesperson Cde Simon Khaya Moyo said the President and party’s First Secretary had insisted on a message of peace. “The President has underscored the importance of unity of purpose and the need to speak with one voice at all levels,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He said the party’s national chairperson Cde Opah Muchinguri-Kashiri had given a comprehensive report on preparations so far for the conference. “The report covered preparations undertaken by all sub-committees with emphasis on infrastructure developments at the venue,” he said. “It also covered issues to do with security and accreditation, information and publicity, including regalia, promotional material, transport, accommodation and catering. The report also covered areas of health, environment and entertainment.” According to Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri’s report, preparations for the conference were proceeding exceedingly well. Cde Khaya Moyo said the national political commissar, Cde Engelbert Rugeje, had given a detailed commissariat report whose content has been transmitted to all provincial persons emphasising the President’s country wide “Thank you rallies”. He said the report also touched on preparations for the conference and the recently held Mutoko North Constituency by-election resoundingly won by Cde Rambidzai Nyabote of Zanu-PF. “He also appraised the meeting of the ongoing provincial inter-district meetings,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. “The national commissar also gave a brief on the operations of the Herbert Chitepo School of Ideology through the programmes, the relations between the Chinese Communist Party and Zanu-PF continues to blossom.” Cde Khaya-Moyo said the party’s secretary for administration Cde Obert Mpofu gave an informative report on a meeting of former liberation movements in the region held recently in Namibia. The meeting, he said, was attended by Zanu-PF, (Zimbabwe), ANC of South Africa, MPLA (Angola), Swapo (Namibia), Frelimo (Mozambique) and Chamachamapinduzi (Tanzania). “The meeting was very productive and discussed common issues relevant to policies and programmes of these former liberation movements,” he said. “There is an agreed position that these meetings should be held annually.”