The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent
A MAN from Bulawayo’s Emakhandeni suburb had his car stolen at his home after he allegedly left its doors unlocked and keys on the dashboard. Thabisani Ncube’s silver Honda Fit, registration number ADD 8561 was stolen between Saturday afternoon and Sunday morning. It is alleged that Ncube arrived at his home at about 3PM and parked the car. He entered into his other car and slept until the following morning. It is not clear if he was drunk when the incident occurred. “After parking the Honda Fit he entered a Nissan Liberty which was outside his house and slept. He only woke up the following morning to discover that his other car was missing. He also discovered that the alleged thief had entered the Nissan Liberty he was sleeping in and ransacked it before getting away $15 which was in one of his pockets,” said a source. The source said it was not clear why Ncube slept in the car. Bulawayo police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango yesterday confirmed the car theft case which she said was reported at Luveve Police Station. “A 26 year old man lost his vehicle to an unknown thief in Emakhandeni suburb. Our officers are carrying investigations on the matter. We appeal to anyone who might have information which might lead to the arrest of the culprit and location of the car to come forward,” said Chief Insp Simango. She expressed concern over apparent recklessness, leading to the theft of most cars. “This is the third theft within a short space being reported to us in the city. Our observations point to recklessness on the part of the vehicle owners, hence we appeal to motorists to be cautious in the way they handle their cars,” she said. Chief Insp Simango said those with no security at their homes should consider leaving their cars at overnight car parks. She said motorists should also avoid giving their car keys to untrustworthy individuals as some of them turn out to be thieves. In one incident, a man from Nkulumane suburb lost his car to a thief who drove away with the vehicle after assisting him to fix it when it broke down in Pumula North last week. On November 30, a Plumtree motorist also lost his vehicle to a man who pretended to be a potential buyer ready to pay US$1 300 but vanished during a test drive. —@nqotshili