The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls
DESTINATION Zimbabwe continues to attract world attention as some of its hotels have been named among the best in Africa. Recently Frommer and National Geographic Traveller named Zimbabwe as one of the 19 must-see tourism destinations in the world in 2019 while another report by Lonely Planet listed Zimbabwe as the third destination the world must see next year. Frommer is a leading travel guide while National Geographic is one of the world’s leading geographic magazines. Lonely Planet is a leading travel organisation. The three have all listed Zimbabwe as a formidable tourism player globally with abundant business opportunities and wider room for improved viability. In a latest thumbs up for local tourism, the daily UK Telegraph Travels, has also ranked some of Zimbabwe’s hotels among the best in Africa. These include three Africa Albida Tourism (AAT) properties namely Victoria Falls Safari Lodge, Victoria Falls Safari Club and Ngoma Safari Lodge as well as Singita Pamushana Lodge, Bumi Hills Safari Lodge, Camelthorn Lodge, Chikwenya, Amalinda Lodge, Zambezi Sands River Camp, Matetsi Victoria Falls, Bomani Tented Lodge, Zambezi Expeditions, Davison’s Camp, The Victoria Falls Hotel, Somalisa Acacia, The Elephant Camp, Camp Hwange, Little Gorges, Gorges Lodge, The Hide, Ruckomechi Camp, Khulu Bush Camp and Flatdog Lodge. The local facilities scored between 8 and 9 out of 10 points each. The ratings focus on location, style and character, service and facilities, rooms, food and drink, value for money, access for people with disability and family friendly, according to the Telegraph Travel expert rating. South Africa has a bigger number of top ranked hotels on the continent with its privately owned five-star La Cle de Montagnes (Hotel Franschhoek) getting 10 points to become the best hotel. In Zimbabwe the luxurious Singita Pamushana Lodge in Malilangwe reserve adjacent to Gonarezhou National Park was raked top followed by Bumi Hills in Kariba and Chikwenya in Mana Pools. AAT chief executive Mr Ross Kennedy said 2018 has been an incredible year for Zimbabwe tourism and for the hospitality group. “Destination recognition keeps rolling in and we are so proud to see this specific acknowledgment for three of our properties in The Telegraph. ” he said. All the reports so far have commended President Emmerson Mnangagwa”s administration for showing keen interest to invest in tourism and ensuring safety of tourists. — @ncubeleon