The Chronicle The National clean-up launch is a historic day in Zimbabwe which will go down memory lane as a day when all Zimbabweans from all walks of life came together for the greater good of the environment. The clean-up is being launched under the theme “Zero Tolerance to Litter-My Environment, My Pride”. Scheduled for December 5th 2018 at Takashinga Sports Club in Highfield, Harare. The day has come, its activities are expected to be as practical and effective as possible. We cannot afford to launch a cosmetic clean up. While it is acknowledged that there has been a lot of build up to clean-up initiatives that have significantly contributed to a clean, safe and healthy environment, there is need to get to the pith today as the programme progresses. Dress code It is expected that people should come dressed for cleaning up. We urge all Zimbabweans who will participate in the clean-up on this day to be exemplary by dressing in accordance to the dictates of this day. The recommended dress code is as follows: – Khakis – Jeans – Dust coats – Gumboots/ Safety shoes – Gloves -Face masks All stakeholders are expected to dress appropriately for today’s event and all the subsequent clean ups. It is expected that His Excellency President Mnangagwa and other VIP guests will lead the nation in undertaking the real clean-up. Each leader is supposed to bring his or her own broom and other cleaning materials to demonstrate to all Zimbabweans that they are serious about cleaning the country. The Ministry of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry may assist in the provision of some of the cleaning materials but the general expectation is that leaders should lead by example and provide for the resources needed in undertaking the clean-up. Additionally, corporate executives should be reminded to spearhead the same on their premises and those that join the Presidium should also do likewise. Stakeholder participation It takes a village to raise a child thus it is expected that every stakeholder takes part in this initiative on today. There should be massive stakeholder involvement in the cleaning of their areas. The media fraternity is urged to cover various clean-up initiatives by various corporates, individuals and institutions. Sustaining such a momentum will go a long way in building and making the programme a success. Without stakeholder participation this programme is bound to fail. All stakeholders, countrywide are urged to fully participate in this noble initiative, which will be led by His Excellency, the President of the Republic, Cde Mnangagwa,the Ministry of Environment, Tourism and Hospitality Industry, EMA is ready to avail any logistical support which any of you may require to ensure this programme becomes a resounding success. Lastly, an appeal is made to members of the media fraternity to join us in this journey by reporting on all activities undertaken by various stakeholders throughout the country. Let us work together to make this day a resounding success. Together- Protecting the Environment!!