The Chronicle Esinathy Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter
A UNITED States-based church, Hope New York City (HopeNYC), is set to build a clinic for Mbalibali villagers who walk long distances to access health services in Tsholotsho. The villagers walk for more than 20 kilometres to the nearest clinics which include Nkunzi and Bhubhunde. Speaking during the ground-breaking ceremony for the clinic, the co-founder and medical mission director of HopeNYC Pastor, Curtis Ramkhelawan, said the church will begin constructing the clinic as soon as paperwork being processed by the Tsholotsho Rural District Council is completed. “We are glad to have this ceremony on this auspicious day that the Lord has made for us. We requested for this land last year when we came here for our medical outreach programme because we had seen the need to have a clinic here,” he said. “Everything is ready for the construction of this clinic, we are just waiting for the approval of certain documents by the local government. We hope to get support from each and every one of you here to support in the construction of our clinic.” The pastor said they will cover all costs associated with the construction of the clinic. Pastor Ramkhelawan together with other eleven doctors from the US came to Mbalibali and provided health services to the villagers last year in September. Tsholotsho RDC promised to support the initiative in whatever way they can. “Our Member of Parliament Cde Zenzo Sibanda and the Council Chairperson Cde Esau Siwela have blessed this development and said their offices are always open if there is need for them to help,” said Deputy Council Chairperson Mr Manger Sobani. The villagers sang and danced, expressing their joy and appreciation of the plans to build a clinic for them. One of the villagers said the clinic will bring relief to villagers who had to travel long distances to the nearest clinics, with some dying on their way there. Meanwhile, the church donated Christmas presents to Mbalibali schoolchildren and teachers. The presents included toys, stationery, clothes and a projector for the school. — @esinathy_essira