The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent
POLICE in Bulawayo have urged travelling residents to register their homes under the police’s house under supervision facility to curb burglary cases. Bulawayo police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango said since the festive season has started, police are aware that some people would be travelling leaving their houses unguarded. She said those who would be travelling can notify the police about their travel arrangements so that they can keep their houses under surveillance. “We are urging residents who would be travelling to take advantage of the house under supervision scheme that we are offering as police. Those who would be travelling during this period and want the service can approach the nearest police station to get information on how this facility operates. It is one of the services that we provide through policing,” she said. Chief Insp Simango urged residents to install burglar bars among other security measures at their homes.“We might be offering the house under supervision facility but we strongly urge residents to increase their home security. They should install burglar bars to deter criminals from tampering with their properties,” she said. Chief Insp Simango urged companies that would be closed for business during the festive season to also tighten their security. On Friday some companies closed to mark the end of the business year and commencement of the festive season. “With companies we are saying they should engage services of professional security companies to take care of their premises while they are away. In the past we have dealt with incidents where companies engage non professionals some of whom cannot provide their contact details during a crisis situation. Some of the untrained security guards would not be having the requisite security equipment which professionals could use to prevent raids,” she said. The police have already started crime awareness campaigns in a bid to reduce festive season related crimes. Chief Insp Simango said crimes of concern include rape and theft. -@nqotshili