The Chronicle Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls
SIXTY boxers from around the country turned up for the Champion of Champions boxing tournament in Hwange at the weekend where a 10-year-old from Victoria Falls stole the show with his skills in the ring. The tournament, which was being held for the first time in Matabeleland North, was organised by the Zimbabwe Boxing Federation and Hwange Colliery. There were 25 bouts as some pugilists ended up not taking to the ring for a number of reasons ranging from a clash in weights and fear of the level of competition. Prince Urengwa (10), a pupil at Chinotimba Primary School in Victoria Falls, was the toast of the day when he turned tables on a Bulawayo champion Joel Mangoma to win 2-1 in the paperweight category. Urengwa had lost to Mangoma in previous bouts. There was a split in the lightweight category after veterans Webster Sangarwe of Victoria Falls and Zimbabwe National Army’s Felix Masiwire drew 50-50. Judges settled for a split and Masiwire won the match after adjudging that Sangarwe had few instances whereby he held his opponent. Bulawayo’s Zibusiso Nyoni knocked out Admire Moyo from ZNA in the lightweight category. In the heavyweight category, Hwange’s Anele Bafana knocked out Tashinga Manyika from ZNA. Another ZNA boxer Nyasha Varinyu won 2-1 against Bulawayo’s Bridget Ncube in the female open bantamweight challenge after their coaches opted for a non-championship bout. Tobias Owen Mposiwa of the Victoria Falls Boxing Academy said the tournament was a befitting platform for boxers. “It was a nice tournament and we thank ZBF for giving us an opportunity as Matabeleland North to host the Champion of Champions. “The community had an opportunity to watch champions as this will also enhance training by the boxers. Some didn’t have matches because of fear of injuries,” said Mposiwa. He said said a provincial tournament will be held in Victoria Falls on December 22 to afford those who didn’t participate an opportunity in the ring. — @ncubeleon 