The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent
AFRO Jazz musician Jeys Marabini says he is honoured to be sharing the stage with music legend, Thomas “Mukanya” Mapfumo, during the Bulawayo leg of his nationwide Peace Tour this weekend. Mukanya who was expected in the country yesterday evening from the US will kick off his tour in Gweru tomorrow before bringing his act to Bulawayo at the Large City Hall on Saturday. The Peace Tour is meant to unite Zimbabweans. Jeys Marabini said he was privileged to be sharing the stage with a Zimbabwean music legend. “It’s a huge honour for me. Thomas Mapfumo is one of the greatest musicians from Zimbabwe and after 15 years out the country, I’ll be sharing the stage with him at his first show in Bulawayo,” said Marabini. He said being chosen to perform with Mukanya showed that he was doing something right. “It’s reassuring for me because this shows that people are following and admiring my works. The promoters from Harare who are organising this show said they wanted me to perform because my music is good,” said Jeys while calling on fans to come in their numbers to enjoy themselves. Organiser of the show, Blessing Vava said they had invited Jeys to perform with Mukanya because they wanted to honour him for his contribution in the music industry. “We roped in Jeys Marabini to honour him for his immense contribution to the music industry. He’s one of the few artistes who have polished acts on stage that people can relate to and he also blends well with Mukanya,” said Vava. When Mukanya announced his Peace Tour, he called on local artistes to apply for a chance to share the stage with him. Vava said while they were still finalising acts, they have since identified three bands from Gweru for their first leg. “House of Stone Band, Samukoko and On One willl support Mukanya at the Gweru show.” Gary Tight, a fast rising afro pop musician will be a permanent feature as he will be performing in all cities. After the Gweru and Bulawayo shows this weekend, Mukanya will be in Beitbridge next Friday for a performance at Pagomba Café. A day after he will be in Masvingo where he is billed to perform at Caravan Park. His next stop will be in Mutare on December 21 at Golden Peacock followed by Kadoma on December 22 at Odyssey. Kariba will have a special treat as the legend will be in their town on Christmas Day. On December 28, a day before the Zambezi Lager Victoria Falls Carnival, Mapfumo will be in the resort town for a performance at the Vic Falls Primary School. He will wind up his tour with a performance at the Harare International Conference Centre on New Year’s Eve.