The Chronicle Nduduzo Tshuma, Political Editor
THE endorsement of President Emmerson Mnangagwa by Zanu-PF provinces and organs as the party’s Presidential candidate in the 2023 elections is an expression of confidence in his leadership and that he will lead the country to economic transformation, analysts said yesterday. Party provinces and organs, as part of their resolutions in the run up to the Zanu-PF 17th Annual People’s Conference, which kicked off yesterday at Esigodini, Matabeleland South, endorsed President Mnangagwa as the party’s presidential candidate in the 2023 elections. The endorsement comes at the back of elections in June when President Mnangagwa and Zanu-PF emerged victorious. Political analyst Mr Godwin Mureriwa said while it was part of the Zanu-PF culture to endorse its Presidential candidates, it is significant in giving President Mnangagwa the confidence to lead knowing he has the people’s support. “This also puts to a hold speculation in the media of factionalism in Zanu-PF as all structures are speaking with one voice. It also affirms the legitimacy of President Mnangagwa and dismisses calls by some sections for a GNU because he has all the support,” he said. Mr Mureriwa said the President has indicated a shift in the conduct of business in the party and the party would follow suit. “The President has said it’s no longer business as usual, the party will concentrate less on politics and more on the economy. Outside the endorsement of the President as the candidate, it goes further, the fruits of the efforts on the economy will ensure his victory so the party needs to support him by concentrating their energies on the economy,” he said. “The theme of the conference is clear that focus is on the economy and towards achieving a middle income economy by 2030 which also covers President Mnangagwa’s second term when he, as expected, wins the 2023 polls.” Another political analyst, Mr Richard Mahomva said the endorsement of President Mnangagwa reaffirms stability in the party. “The national endorsement of President Mnangagwa as a centrifugal character of the party’s embedding electoral mandate signals foresight in Zanu -PF. The nationwide nod to ED’s leadership reflects the resolute and homogenous voice of Zanu-PF in reaffirming the stability of the leadership question in the once factional embattled party,” he said. “Therefore, ED’s endorsement is symbolic and telling of the party’s people-driven trajectory against the backdrop of the 2017 November renewal of Zanu-PF. The move nullifies the misguided narratives of Zanu-PF’s potential fracture post the transition of November.” Added Mr Mahomva: “At the level of state-craft, Zanu-PF’s reaffirmed confidence in His Excellency compliments the party’s successive adherence to the enduring national values particularly those embodied in winning manifesto of 2018 whose mandate is to be extended in 2023. Therefore, this goes the person of ED. “It’s about pursuing national development prospects embodied in his credence and astute statesmanship.” President Mnangagwa’s has demonstrated political will to transform the economy, an attitude that was lacking in the previous dispensation. Addressing the 2019 pre-budget seminar in Bulawayo last month, economic advisor Professor Ashok Chakravarti said the country was on a path to a turnaround under the leadership of President Mnangagwa whom he described as a reformist. “The difference between what I was saying three or four years ago and now is that the policy makers in the past did not bother to listen to practitioners like me. We are now in the Second Republic and we have a reformist leadership under President Emmerson Mnangagwa. “Most importantly we have the political will to reform. I must say in the past, political will was not there,” he said. “Not only do we have political will but we have a very powerful implementer who will make sure that things happen. So, today I’m going to be very brutally truthful with you.”