The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
MEMBERS of Parliament have demanded an increase in their allowances, saying they play an important role in the running of the country. Norton independent MP Mr Temba Mliswa said their allowances have to be reviewed because they work hard in representing their constituencies and the country at various platforms. “Our allowances mean absolutely nothing. The committee that I chair can sit from 8AM to 8PM working for this country but what they get is a pittance $75, not US dollars. MPs are people who are working tirelessly for this country in these committees. “The committees have a risk on their own because they expose people who have money and who have the ability to even put a mafia together for them but what do we get — $75. That has to be reviewed so that MPs are able to execute their duties in a professional manner,” said Mr Mliswa. He urged Government to also review allowances that they get when going on duty out of the country. “I’ll also talk about the allowances that we get when we leave this country. The allowances that we get are US$50 when leaving Zimbabwe. It’s not enough. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development has to look into this and increase that allowance we get when we leave the country. “There must be a credit card which is given to MPs when they travel and what they must do is to account for it when they come back, not a situation where the money that we get is not enough even to buy meals,” said Mr Mliswa. The Government, he said, should provide MPs with cars that are suitable for the terrain in their constituencies Mashonaland West proportional representation MP Goodluck Kwaramba urged Government to improve the welfare of legislators. “I rise to make my contribution on the welfare of MPs regarding the cars which are allocated to us. Being an MP is a very tough task, especially for those who come from rural constituencies. The car which is given to the MP is a service vehicle which is used in the constituency. “Even when there is a funeral, that car is used at that funeral and yet servicing the car is a very expensive exercise. At times we are not able to service the cars because of the expenses involved and our salaries are not enough,” said MP Kwaramba. He said sometimes MPs are forced to use public transport to conduct their duties due to failure to service their cars. “Due to the situation, we’re forced to use commuter omnibuses to conduct our business. We’re saying, may the Government please expedite the process of allocating us vehicles for moving around because as stated before, the cars given to the MPs are service vehicles,” he said. “It’s a universal car for the constituency. Whatever assignment has to be done in the constituency, the electorate expects that car to carry out those duties. I am pleading with the Finance Minister to increase allowances for better cars so that the MPs can maintain the integrity and status expected of them.” In response, Finance and Economic Development Minister Professor Mthuli Ncube promised MPs that they will get a Toyota Hilux twin cab vehicles soon. “The issue of vehicles is under control. We’re dealing with it. MPs will get vehicles and I think we had even agreed on the model and if my information is correct unless they have changed, the model is a Hilux twin cab,” said Prof Ncube. He did not respond to the request for allowance review. — @pamelashumba1