The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
GOVERNMENT has launched a countrywide blitz on unlicensed motor vehicles as part of efforts to weed out unroadworthy vehicles this festive season. The blitz started on Friday, with officials from the Vehicle Inspectorate Department (VID) also targeting motorists queuing for fuel at service stations. Transport and Infrastructural Development Minister Joel Biggie Matiza confirmed the exercise, saying VID officials were doing their routine checks. “We’ve intensified routine checks on vehicles so that we get rid of unroadworthy vehicles as we approach the festive season. We want to make sure that all vehicles using our roads are roadworthy and fit to be driven. “I have no figures of the number of vehicles that have been impounded yet but our officials will continue moving around inspecting vehicle registration and related issues,” said Minister Matiza. “I urge all motorists to comply with the rules of the road. We don’t want lives to be lost on our public roads due to reckless and negligent driving and unroadworthy vehicles. “My ministry is determined to put a stop to this trend and we need support from everyone. We are building a new Zimbabwe and all of us should be ready to play a positive role as we strive to enjoy an era of peace and prosperity.” Since Friday, VID officials have been moving from one service station to the other, inspecting vehicles. This forced some motorists, whose vehicles were not registered, to move out of the queues. “My vehicle licence was due for payment three months ago. On Friday I had to pull out of a fuel queue in the city centre after VID officials came inspecting vehicles in the queue. “Several other cars also pulled out of the queue because they were not licensed. I plan to pay for my licence on Monday and stay safe,” said Mr Abel Sibanda, a taxi driver from Emganwini. Last month Minister Matiza said more than 150 000 vehicles whose owners failed to renew their licences for two years as of July 31 this year face de-registration. He said Government realised that there were numerous vehicles that were either plying public roads or simply parked in backyards, but have not been licensed for more than two years without official exemptions. The minister said the behaviour was contrary to the country’s statutes and has to be corrected without further delay. – @pamelashumba1