The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter
ZIMBABWE’s Total Caf Champions League representatives FC Platinum, whose players and coach dominated the red carpet during the Castle Lager Premiership Soccer Stars banquet in Harare last Friday, say they want to carry the same platinum spirit into the African Safari. Pure Platinum Play are expected to fly out of the country this week for a Caf Champions League first round first leg encounter against Congo’s Otoho on Friday, a week after their coach Norman Mapeza was confirmed as the 2018 Coach of the Year having led them to back to back league title wins. South Africa bound attacking midfielder Rodwell Chinyengetere also retained the prestigious Soccer Star of the Year accolade, becoming only the third player since the inception of the award in 1969 to achieve the feat while defender Kevin Moyo was also voted as one of the two runners up. While his exploits that saw him named as the first runner up as a Triangle United player, stocky Lameck Nhamo is now on the books of the Zvishavane miners and made his debut in the 1-0 win over CNaps of Madagascar last Wednesday. Another FC Platinum player Pasca Manhanga was named among the best 11 players on the local scene in which Chinyengetere also grabbed the Golden Boot gong for his 17 goals. “FCP is humbled to receive these outstanding accolades. A lot of hard work went into achieving these. We would like to position FCP as a leading African brand and all our efforts will go towards this vision,” said Chido Chizondo, the club’s media officer. The platinum miners have surpassed the feat that was achieved by the 1996 Caps United squad that had Stewart Murisa as the Soccer Star, then dribbling menace Alois Bunjira as the first runner up while Steve Kwashi was the Coach of the Year. Chizondo said their next objective was to carry the same spirit of increasing brand platinum into the African continent and even beyond especially where winners of the Total Caf Champions League get to participate in the Fifa Club World Cup. “We hope to carry the same platinum spirit into the African Safari as well as the next season,” said Chizondo one of the four women of substance who hold communication portfolios in the local game after Kudzai Bare from the Premier Soccer League, Thandiwe Moyo and Deliwe Mhaka from the relegated Bulawayo City and Nichrut respectively.