The Chronicle Pamela Shumba/ Leonard Ncube, Chronicle Reporters
ZANU-PF national chairperson Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri and the national coordination committee yesterday met provincial leaders in Esigodini in preparation for the party’s forthcoming 17th National People’s Conference. The conference will be held at Mzingwane High School, Esigodini, in Matabeleland South from December 10 to December 15. Speaking after the meeting and touring the venue, Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri said she was impressed with the work done so far to improve facilities at the school. “We’re counting down the days remaining before the big event and we’re here to assess the progress on the ground. I must say that I’m impressed. “People have been working around the clock and the work is remarkable. We hope that by Sunday most of the work will be complete. We’re coming back on Sunday for another assessment before the delegates come in,” said Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri. She said the party has invested a lot to uplift Mzingwane High School, which had been run down. Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri said water and sanitation issues had been addressed to avoid an outbreak of cholera. “We’re discouraging people from bringing in cooked food so that we avoid disasters. This is why we invited provincial leaders so that they make sure that all party members observe the rules and regulations that we have set out. “Adequate arrangements have been made to make sure that clean water will be available throughout the conference. We’ve also been assured that toilets, which are in a deplorable state will be refurbished before the start of the conference.” “Our environmental department has also put in place about 100 monitors who will pick litter to ensure that the environment is clean all the time,” said Cde Muchinguri-Kashiri. She urged the national coordination committee to give local businesspeople an opportunity to provide services and products so that they get dividends from hosting the conference. Meanwhile, Zanu-PF supporters in Matabeleland North have resolved to back President Mnangagwa for another term in the next harmonised elections in 2023 for him to finish developmental projects that he started. The party yesterday held a provincial inter-district meeting at its provincial offices in Lupane where a number of resolutions were made in preparation for the 17th Annual National People’s Conference. — @pamelashumba1 – @ncubeleon