The Chronicle Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent
A book titled, Preservation of Ndebele Art and Architecture, was launched on Wednesday at the Amagugu International Cultural Centre by US Ambassador to Zimbabwe Brian Nichols. The book documents the My Beautiful Home painting competition and was funded to the tune of $42 000 by the State Department Ambassador’s Fund for Cultural Preservation. The book commissioned by the National Gallery of Zimbabwe, documents the external and internal art, architecture, and decoration of Ndebele homes through schematic drawings and photographs. It highlights the significance of these forms in the context of culture, environment, and local Ndebele history.
The book was edited by Violet Kee Tui and cultural and history doyen, Pathisa Nyathi. Nichols gave credit to the over 100 women who participated in the My Beautiful Home Competition organised by Amagugu. He said when he read the book, what stuck out to him was the intricate artistry possessed by women. “The thing that struck me is the combination of creativity. Some had taken perhaps a more traditional motif and modernised it (house painting). The use of colour and depth and to be able to do that with freehand was so impressive to me. Passing that tradition down to the next generation of Ndebele children and next generation of the world children and that’s an incomparable gift,” said Nichols. He said the whole project of documenting and coming up with the book cost $42 000, describing it as priceless. “When you look at the price at what we have provided or the cost of what we have provided as the United States for the creation of this book we provided $42 000. That’s a significant amount of money but the value that has been created is priceless.” He said as America they were honoured in helping preserve Ndebele culture in order to keep it alive for generations to come. On the side-lines of the book launch Nichols revealed that their next project had started in Great Zimbabwe and was funded to the tune of $400 000. “The project has started and we’ve provided funding to the World Monuments Fund and they’ve already begun their preliminary activities on the preservation of Great Zimbabwe. That project will go on for several years. We’ve availed $400 000 to the project. My goal is to continue to find more projects to fund,” said Nichols. After the book launch, dignitaries that included National Gallery of Zimbabwe in Bulawayo director, Voti Thebe, visited the homestead of past winner Thulisa Ndlovu in Mawusumani Village in Ward 17. Nichols handed over a food hamper after touring the homestead and marvelling at the paintings.