The Chronicle Pamenus Tuso A Bulawayo community based orphans and vulnerable children support organisation, Susceptible Iyanai Chinoda Arts and Crafts (SICO) is providing life skills to women in Bulawayo. Founded by renowned artist, Mrs Senzeni Chidziya-Bhila in 2007, SICO has been empowering women in various entrepreneurship skills such as wig, detergents and soap-making. Mrs Chidziya-Bhila has also trained women and vulnerable children on recycling old materials such as old cassettes. She also trains her clients in the crocheting of shoes out of Raffia, a recycled raw material imported from Japan. Recently, a total of 21 women from Fairbridge and Queens Park West suburbs were presented with certificates after undergoing a two-week intensive training course in wigs, hats and bags crocheting. The course participants were also trained in rags and soap making. “Last month, we did a combined graduation for Fairbridge and Queens Park West women following their completion of training in making wigs, detergents, soap and various other items. So far, we have trained 21 women and two men but I still need to train more women because the demand for training is overwhelming,” said Mrs Chidziya-Bhila. During the training, Mrs Chidziya-Bhilla said, the participants do not pay anything except a “small” token of appreciation. “Remember these people are vulnerable. Some of the trainees come from nearby squatter settlements. Most of the time, I assist them with things like wig caps and needles free of charge because my passion is to empower women and vulnerable children by giving them life skills,” she said. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs Mavis Kufazvinei said her life has remarkably changed for the better after undergoing Mrs Chidziya-Bhila’s training. “Amai Bhila has surely opened our eyes and taught us that as women we should not depend on our husbands for everything. I am now able to make detergents, wigs, carpet rags and hats, courtesy of her training. I am also able to make shoes out of Raffia which I sell to augment my family income,” said Mrs Kufazvinei. She said following the training, her major challenge is to secure finance to start producing at full scale. “Our major challenge now is finance. We do not have enough money to start our businesses. We need foreign currency to import some raw materials from South Africa and Singapore,” she said. Mrs Kufazvinei said she had tried in vain to borrow money from the recently launched Women’s Bank. “The bank’s borrowing conditions are unfriendly to women. For example, one should first of all pay 10 percent of the amount which she wants to apply for. This condition is very difficult for most women whose businesses are still in their infancy,” she said. Mrs Kufazvinei urged other women to enroll for the SISCO courses.
Another beneficiary, Mrs Sazini Bhebhe said she had learnt how to crochet shoes and bags using Raffia. She was also trained in wig making. “I now know how to make bags and hats using Raffia. I can also make soaps, both liquid and solid as well as various types of wigs,” said Mrs Bhebhe. She said she plans to start her own wig and soap making business but bemoaned the exorbitant prices of raw materials. “The major challenge we are facing is that of skyrocketing prices of ingredients. Some of the ingredients are also imported and we need foreign currency,” said Mrs Bhebhe. Mrs Chidziya-Bhila urged Zimbabweans not to rely too much on donors. “These days there are no longer donors. People were used to being given everything by donors but we have now realised that the donor syndrome is not sustainable because those who used to give us are no longer there. “So my wish is to see every woman being able to sustain her family without any assistance from anybody. That is my passion,” she said.