The Chronicle Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter
THERE is an outcry after retailers allegedly colluded to increase the prices of school uniforms by more than 200 percent ahead of opening of schools on January 8 next year. Parents have said the prevailing economic circumstances and the pricey uniforms have made education expenses unbearable. Coupled with the inflated prices of uniforms is the high cost of living, outrageously high school fees and other necessities that have to be paid for. School shoes now cost $60 up from $20, a satchel $62 up from $21, shirt and short $65 up from $20, dress $45 up from $15, blazer $150 up from $50, skirt and blouse $80 up from $30, hat $30 up from $11, socks $6 up from $2 and tie $18 up from $9. A full set of uniform for a Grade One pupil costs an average of $135. Primary and Secondary Education Minister Professor Paul Mavima last week said parents must procure uniforms from the best quotation they can get and must not be forced to buy from schools. This followed concerns by some parents who said schools were working with retailers to inflate prices for their benefit. Prof Mavima said all schools are expected to ensure good governance, transparent and a corrupt -free process in the management of schools. A survey done by Chronicle in the city yesterday showed that most retailers have increased prices of uniforms and stationery and parents are struggling to make ends meet. “As parents we are very worried about these prices. My child is going for Form One and I have already spent close to $400 on uniforms alone and now I have to borrow money from someone to buy stationery and pay school fees. “The same uniforms would have cost me $100 if prices had remained the same. I don’t know if the retailers are justified to sell uniforms at such exorbitant prices but this is frustrating. I spent the whole day trying to compare prices but they are just the same,” said Mrs Sibonokuhle Nkala from Cowdray Park. Scores of parents said they had resorted to buying most requirements from vendors as their prices were, in some cases, half of what registered retailers were charging. “I was very excited that my first child is going for ECD but I was very disappointed when I got to these shops as I had to spend more than $140 on one uniform, which should cost $50. I think it’s high time Government acted on these price hikes because they’re unjustified. “It’s depressing to think that while the prices of uniforms have gone up by more than 200 percent, our salaries are still the same. My salary was only enough to buy uniforms and stationery for my child who is going to Form One out of my three children,” said Ms Rutendo Masamba from Emganwini. Some parents said they have resorted to buying from street vendors who sell products like stockings and exercise books at lower prices while others are engaging individual tailors who sell school uniforms at reasonable prices. However, some schools have preferred retailers and refuse to admit pupils who buy uniforms elsewhere.