The Chronicle Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Acting Sports Editor
FIFA has extended its club protection programme to 2022 in a move that will see clubs whose players get injured while on national duty get compensation from the football motherbody during the time they are sidelined by injury. Fifa secretary general Fatma Samoura announced the extension in a circular to member associations on Thursday. “Fifa is pleased to announce that the Fifa Club Protection Programme (hereinafter: “the Programme”) has been extended to cover the 2019 to 2022 period. “Under the Programme, clubs will be compensated, to a certain extent, if their professional football players are injured due to an accident while on duty with senior representative “A”teams for matches on dates listed in the international match calendar for the period between 1 January, 2019 and 31 December 2022,” wrote the Fifa head of secretariat. However, she said death, permanent disablement and other losses such as medical expenses will not be covered largely because the involved club will also no longer be paying the particular player anything. If a player is injured due to an accident while on duty with his representative “A” team, the player’s club will be compensated for having to continue to pay the player’s fixed salary although the player is temporarily disabled and unable to perform footballing activities for his club. Samoura said the operational set up of the programme will be changed in March next year and member associations will be informed in due course. “Please note that as of March 2019, the operational set up of the Programme will be changed. “All member associations will be informed about any changes affecting the coverage and procedures and the updated Technical Bulletin will be distributed at the same time,” reads the communiqué from Samoura. Some of the well known Zimbabwean players who were injured while on national duty include the likes of Rahman Gumbo, Johannes Ngodzo and the late Willard Khumalo whose careers were hugely disturbed due to injuries picked on national duty. The Fifa Club Protection Programme was introduced in 2012 to quell mounting unrest by clubs over the lack of financial contribution from national associations towards the cost of players injured while on national duty.