The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
Zanu PF organs and sister revolutionary parties have re-affirmed support for President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s leadership and focus on economic revival since taking up the party’s leadership last November. Sister organisations from China, Pakistan and Cuba said they were impressed by reforms President Mnangagwa was rolling out to revive the economy. Giving solidarity messages at the ongoing 17th Zanu-PF National People’s Conference in Esigodini yesterday, Acting Chinese Ambassador to Zimbabwe, Zhao Baogang said China was convinced that under the able leadership of President Mnangagwa the country will overcome its challenges. “Since President Emmerson Mnangagwa assumed office, Zanu-PF has been working vigorously to implement reforms; new achievements have been scored in national construction since then. We are convinced that under the strong leadership of party President Mnangagwa and Zanu-PF, Zimbabwe is bound to embrace an even brighter future,” he said. The Chinese Communist Party, he said stands ready to further develop its special relationship with Zanu-PF so as to spearhead the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership of Cooperation between China and Zimbabwe towards steady progress for the benefit of the people of the two countries. “We wish the annual national people’s conference success. May the friendship between the Communist Party of China and Zanu-PF last forever.” The Palestinian National Liberation Movement (Fatah) pledged their support for Zanu-PF. “We would like to express our heartfelt gratitude and solidarity with your party on the occasion of the convening of the Zanu-PF conference under the title in peace and unity. Zimbabwe is open to business in order to achieve an above average economy in 2030. We wish you success and prosperity in this momentous event,” said the revolutionary party in a statement read by Zanu-PF chairperson Cde Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri. The revolutionary party said the relationship between Palestine and Zimbabwe has always been a source of pride to people of both nations. “This was represented in our people to people friendship and this continued under our leadership. It is highlighted through your honourable stance of support with Palestinians to live in freedom and justice in their independent and sovereign state of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital,” it said. The Communist Party of Cuba (CPC) also sent a congratulatory message to President Mnangagwa and pledged continued support and engagement. “On behalf of the party we would like to convey revolutionary greetings to this interval. Cuba is proud to be in relationships that have developed with Zanu-PF based on friendship, mutual respect and cooperation. Cuba wants to express its gratitude to Zanu-PF and to the people of Zimbabwe for their unconditional support in their battle against American blockade,” read the message. The CPC said they were focusing on the economy just like Zanu-PF to improve the welfare of the people in Cuba. “As you are aware Cuba has a new President from last April Cde Miguel Díaz-Canel, we continue working to consolidate what we have achieved relating to the living conditions of our population,” read the statement. “We reaffirm the interest of the Communist Party of Cuba to continue strengthening the historic relationship with Zanu-PF. We wish you success in this indaba. Long live Zanu-PF; Long live Cde Mnangagwa,” the party said in a message. Zanu-PF Women’s League secretary, Cde Marble Chinomona congratulated President Mnangagwa for winning the July 30 harmonised elections and pledged support. “On behalf of the Zanu-PF Women’s League and national executive council and the entire Women’s League membership, I wish to congratulate you and your revolutionary party Zanu-PF for a resoundingly July 30, 2018, harmonised election victory. The elections were transparent, peaceful and credible free and fair. This victory is a victory for all Zimbabweans based on our mantra Zimbabwe is open for business and the new administration’s policies, Zimbabwe is destined for growth and development,” said Cde Chinomona. She said under the leadership of President Mnangagwa a lot of positives have been recorded. “Within a short space of time the engagement and re-engagement policy has ended Zimbabwe’s isolation and attracted billions worth of investment. The people of Zimbabwe have been waiting for a democratic dispensation such as this one which indeed marks the dawn of a new era, an era we all look forward to with great expectations and an era under your leadership together the people of Zimbabwe will turn around this economy and make Zimbabwe great and the jewel of Africa,”
She likened President Mnangagwa’s Cabinet to the Dream Team of the 1990s. Youth League national deputy chairperson Cde Lewis Matutu congratulated President Mnangagwa and the party for garnering two-thirds majority in Parliament in the last election. He pledged the league’s support for President Mnangagwa as the sole candidate for the 2023 elections. Zanu-PF Secretary for War Veterans Cde Victor Matemadanda said war veterans are behind the candidature of President Mnangagwa in 2023 elections and discouraged gossiping in the party. President of the Chiefs Council, Chief Fortune Charumbira said traditional leaders were part of the founding members of Zanu-PF hence they are allowed to support the revolutionary party. He said those that rush to court to protest why chiefs support Zanu-PF must go back again. A representative of the church, Pastor Morris Gwedegwe, said the church in Zimbabwe was solidly behind President Mnangangwa and advocated for the amendment of the number of years for one to run for President from 40 to 55. – AuxiliaK