The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
The duty rebate on essential raw materials needed by drug manufacturers, announced by Finance and Economic Development Minister, Professor Mthuli Ncube in his recent budget statement, takes effect tomorrow. He said the drug manufacturing industry is in the process of registering new products, hence he was expanding the list of essential raw materials for manufacture covered by the duty rebate starting on January 1. Prof Ncube in his budget statement last month, said in recognition of the significance of the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry, Government had provided a facility for imported essential raw materials required by the industry. “The facility has, thus, assisted in the promotion of linkages with the packaging, distribution and marketing industries, thereby boosting employment. “The industry is in the process of registering new products, hence, I propose to expand the list of essential raw materials for manufacture under rebate of duty, with effect from 1 January 2019,” he said. Prof Ncube said in spite of the assistance availed to the industry, retail prices of pharmaceutical products, in particular, drugs for treatment of chronic ailments, have increased and are either quoted in United States dollars, or four times the same amount, if payment is through electronic funds transfer or bond notes. “The unscrupulous profiteering at the expense of patients who cannot afford is inhumane, catastrophic and deprives citizens of basic human rights as enshrined in the Constitution. Government will, thus, continue to prioritise allocation of foreign currency for purchase of raw materials, in order to ensure availability of critical drugs,” he said then. Government has started receiving medicines and medical sundries from suppliers and is distributing them across the country. They comprise medicines for daily use and sundries like gloves and face masks. Acting President Constantino Chiwenga visited Natpharm Company last week and saw truckloads of the medicines. He said the country had satisfactory quantities of medicines. “We have got a very good quantity of medicine and I was asking them what will then happen when the big consignment comes in because we have a big order that has been made worth $25 million and I was trying to see how they are going to store and how they are going to do the distribution,” said Acting President Chiwenga. He said while Natpharm had six warehouses in Harare, Bulawayo, Gweru, Masvingo, Mutare and Chinhoyi, Government was keen on seeing that the medicines were distributed to all health institutions. – @AuxiliaK