The Chronicle Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter
ZANU-PF has urged Government to quickly address the issue of the three-tier pricing system prevailing on the market to ease the burden on ordinary citizens. The ruling party also called for the monitoring of banks particularly bank charges which are very high. This is contained in the resolutions adopted at Zanu-PF’s just ended 17th Annual National People’s Conference held in Esigodini, Matabeleland South Province. “That the monitoring policy must ensure that banks give meaningful interest on deposit accounts and avoid astronomical bank charges. That the Government intervenes expeditiously to eradicate the three tier pricing distortions in the market,” read the resolutions. The delegates also resolved that Government must review the tax system which the party said is punitive. The ruling party also resolved that Government must decisively deal with economic malpractices and said culprits must be punished after a thorough investigation system and robust prosecution system. “Government should urgently create an enabling environment including the ease of doing business, private sector economy for economic development of the country. Government should monitor the implementation of Vision 2030 periodically,” read the resolutions. The revolutionary party also acknowledged and commended Government for the implementation of the National Budget. The economy dominated the Zanu-PF’s conference with President Mnangagwa condemning the three tier pricing system which he said affected a lot of people. Addressing party members as he officially opened the conference in Esigodini last Friday, President Mnangagwa said Government was working on a number initiatives meant to boost the economy. “This conference is being held against the backdrop of an economy which is characterised by fuel shortages, high cost of drugs, medicines, farming inputs and fertilisers as well as a wide range of basic commodities. “We condemn the opportunistic and gluttonous triple pricing regime practices by some business persons, which have resulted in untold suffering to the majority of our people,” he said. Government, President Mnangagwa said, was alive to the challenges faced by the country and a number of strategies were being crafted to avert them. The latest figures from the Zimbabwe National Statistical Agency (ZimStats) show that the year on year inflation rate (annual percentage change) for the month of November 2018 as measured by the all items Consumer Price Index (CPI) stood at 31,01 percent, gaining 10,16 percentage points on the October 2018 rate of 20,85 percent as speculative price increases take their toll on the economy. —@AuxiliaK