The Chronicle Descent Dube, Sports Reporter
BANTU Academy is holding a three-day United States of America (USA) Showcase trial session targeting Under-18s at St Thomas Aquinas Primary School, Bulawayo aimed at giving gifted youngsters an opportunity to get scholarships. Academy founder, Methembe Ndlovu, said there is a huge turnout as they have players from Mutare, Harare, Masvingo, Hwange and Victoria Falls. “A number of kids have shown great potential, but I’m not impressed by the fact that a few players from Bulawayo came for trials. It must be known that the trails are still open for new players, so we’re inviting them to come on Saturday at 8:30AM and showcase their talents,” said Ndlovu. He said they were looking for players with five O-Levels born in 1999 or later. “We’re offering an opportunity for youngsters to get scholarships and study in the USA, including those who are in Form 3, but have good marks with the potential to pass O-Level. These scholarships are meant to empower the youths at a younger age while they still have vast opportunities,” Ndlovu said. He said the belief at the Bantu Academy is that when a player reaches the age of 21, there are three options to take, further one’s education, play professional football or choose a new career path. One of the scouts at the trials Jeff Cook, a lecturer at Penn State University in the USA. Cook said he believes opportunities abound regardless of one’s background. “The power of education is that it opens more doors and it’s not everyone who will be a professional player that’s why we’re exposing these players to new possibilities. Through this project, a number of players like Lucky Mkosana, Mthabisi Tshuma, Owen Gombami and Ezra Siyaduba have benefitted,” said Cook. Cook said he started visiting Bulawayo in 2007 and has been inspired by the positive and open-mindedness shown by Bulawayo residents. “I have made some contributions and gained a lot from Zimbabwe and one of the things that make me proud of the relationship I have made here is a special wedding invitation I got from Lucky (Mkosana), who is wedding at the weekend,” Cook said. He advised soccer players to invest in education to protect themselves and their families from future financial problems. “I’ve met talented teachers here in Bulawayo and players must utilise that and acquire qualifications. Football is the most wonderful sport in the world and it’s also an easy channel of empowering youths and I wish these youngsters could understand that it doesn’t matter whether you come from Philadelphia, Bulawayo, or Masvingo, you can make a good career for yourself,” Cook said. – @DecoDecent2.