The Chronicle Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter
SOLDIERS have a duty to safeguard the image of the nation, hence their conduct should always be beyond reproach, a senior army officer has said. Addressing 107 officers drawn from the Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA), the Air Force of Zimbabwe (AFZ), the Zimbabwe Prison and Correctional Services (ZPCS) who graduated on Thursday at the Zimbabwe School of Military Police at Mzilikazi Barracks (formerly Brady Barracks) in Bulawayo, ZNA Director Training, Brigadier General Godfrey Mupeta, said soldiers are ambassadors of the nation to the outside world. “People see Zimbabwe through you and you carry the brand of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces. This requires you to be level headed, intellect, fair, just and your conduct should be beyond reproach with zero tolerance to corruption, favouritism or criminal abuse of office,” he said. Brig Gen Mupeta said military police should be exemplary to fellow soldiers as they are mandated to ensure that security is fully maintained within cantonment areas as well as in the country at large. “As you go back to your units, you must never forget that you are the unit commander’s first port of call in terms of cantonment security and turn out of our members. Remember all our security measures can only be strengthened by your diligent and professional conduct on duty. Enforcement of proper dressing as one enters and leaves the cantonment area is one of our primary duties,” he said. The officers completed the provost senior non-commissioned officers’ course, the provost senior investigation course, military police records and maintenance course, cyber and white collar crime investigation course, the provost warderer’s course and the regimental police course. Brig Gen Mupeta said apprehending deserters and violent offenders calls for the necessary subduing skills that were imparted during training. He said despite lack of resources at military schools due to the economic constraints, the schools continued to churn out well trained graduates. “I have been thoroughly briefed of all the logistical challenges that you encountered during your training. As you are aware that your school has not been an exception to the general resource shortages which is affecting the entire organisation,” he said. “Our headquarters is aware of the school’s logistical requirements and these would be addressed in line with the ZNA priorities against the backdrop of compressed resources.” Out of the 107 officers who graduated, there were eight females and Brig Gen Mupeta commended them for breaking the barriers of a male dominated profession in line with the ZDF gender policy. — @tamary98