The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent
POLICE in Bulawayo have started crime awareness campaigns ahead of the festive season, urging residents to be on the outlook for prevalent crimes such as rape and theft. Bulawayo police spokesperson Chief Inspector Precious Simango said it is common that during the festive season, members of the public throw out caution as they participate in festivities. Chief Insp Simango said the festive season leaves many people vulnerable to criminals. She said while police will be out in full force executing their duties, residents should safeguard their lives and properties. “We know a lot of people get over excited during the festive season. As police we know that this season is also coupled with an increase in criminal activities. So we have started crime awareness campaigns in the city centre and suburbs advising residents of the dos and don’ts as we have observed crime is of concern during this period,” said Chief Insp Simango. “As police we are concerned about rape cases occurring in the city. We are receiving an average of between 10 to 15 cases a week which is very worrying. Most of the cases are occurring in the home environment meaning victims are violated by assailants they know. “ She said parents and guardians who would be travelling during the festive season should avoid leaving the girl child in the company of male relatives. The girl child, she said, should also avoid accepting gifts from strangers as they are mostly sex pests. The police spokesperson said women who would be attending parties should avoid getting drunk in the company of suspicious characters as cases of sexual violation have been reported from such engagements. Chief Insp Simango said police were also concerned about alcohol and drug abuse cases occurring in the city. She said theft of vehicles and theft from cars were also prevalent in the city hence residents should be on guard. “We want to urge motorists to avoid leaving their car engines running when they exit their vehicles as this has seen some of them losing their cars to thieves. Also of concern are cases of theft from vehicles that are continuously being reported to us. “Laptops, cash, cellphones, handbags among other things left in cars have become targets for thieves hence, we call on residents and motorists to heed our calls that they should not leave their valuables in their vehicles as it exposes them to thieves,” said Chief Insp Simango. She urged residents not to resort to violence in case of misunderstandings, revealing that assault cases are always on the increase during the festive period. – @nqotshili