The Chronicle Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent
ZANU-PF Matabeleland North and Matabeleland South provinces have endorsed President Mnangagwa as the party’s presidential candidate in the 2023 elections and recommended that Government should implement developmental projects in the region. The two provinces came up with the resolutions ahead of the party’s national people’s conference to be held next week at Mzingwane High School in Esigodini, Matabeleland South. Zanu-PF Matabeleland North provincial chairman Cde Richard Moyo said the provincial executive unanimously endorsed President Mnangagwa’s candidature. “As a province we endorsed that there is no vacancy for the office of the President. President Mnangagwa remains our sole candidate and we have endorsed his candidature for the 2023 elections,” said Cde Moyo. He said the Zanu-PF provincial leadership resolved that Government should rehabilitate major roads in the province and construct schools and clinics particularly in resettlement areas. “We also resolved that Government should prioritise rehabilitation of the Bulawayo-Victoria Falls Road, Bulawayo-Nkayi Road although we know that it is under construction. The province also resolved that the Bulawayo-Tsholotsho road be fixed as well as it is also widely used in the province,” said Cde Moyo. “Some of the resolutions include drilling of boreholes and construction of schools and clinics in resettlement areas among other places with a deficit.” Zanu-PF Matabeleland South chairman Cde Rabelani Choeni said they had also endorsed President Mnangagwa as the party’s 2023 presidential election candidate. He said the province supports Government’s implementation of devolution of power. Cde Choeni said the province wants Government to prioritise the Command Livestock programme in Matabeleland South. He said Government should speed up the process of constructing Gwanda State University and set up vocational training centres for skills learning in various districts. “We also have border lying areas which do not have access to the national television broadcaster which affects us in accessing information. We also have poor mobile phone network reception. So we want Government to address this issue so that we can be connected to the rest of the country. “We think that we are lagging behind in terms of development and we should be seen advancing like other provinces. That does not mean we are being side-lined but we want to develop so that we match standards of other areas,” said Cde Choeni. The two provinces join Bulawayo province in endorsing President Mnangagwa’s as the party’s presidential candidate in the 2023 election. — @nqotshili.