Dynamos left winger Valentine Kadonzvo works his way past Highlanders’ Charlton Simangaloma during the ZNA Charities shield final at the National Sports Stadium Tadious Manyepo, Harare Bureau THE Zimbabwe National Army have expressed gratitude to football stakeholders after they grossed over $60 000 from the annual Commander ZNA Charities Shield tournament. The four-team invitational competition ended on Sunday with Dynamos beating Highlanders 2-1 in the final at the National Sports Stadium. Kudzai “KD” Dhemere’s strike and an Honest Moyo own-goal early in the second half were enough to see DeMbare lift their maiden ZNA Charities Cup although they had to put their bodies on the wall as the match had a nail-biting finale after Adrian Sillah had narrowed the deficit for Bosso late on. Bad weather, due to incessant rains over the past three weeks, meant a limited number of spectators braved their way to the stadiums in all the three matches. Fabian Chitungo, the ZNA Charities Staff Officer Grade One, said his organisation grossed over $60 000 out of a set target of $50 000. “On behalf of the Zimbabwe National Army Charities, I would like to express our profound gratitude to the Premier Soccer League, Zifa and all top-flight football clubs in the country, particularly Caps United, Dynamos, Highlanders and Chicken Inn for the roles they play in making sure this fund-raising initiative comes to fruition. “The soccer governing bodies have always been affording us this great opportunity to fund raise using soccer since the inception of the trophy in 2013. “Clubs have equally been willing to play a part and as the ZNA Charities, we would like to thank them. “This year, we had four teams handpicked from both the Southern and Northern Regions. “We were targeting an average of $50 000 gross but due to stakeholder sympathy, we managed to get in excess of $60 000. “Football fans are very special to us and we will always be thankful for the way they have supported us. Despite the heavy downpours, especially during match days, they found their way to the stadiums. “’We feel honoured. It is people like you who give us the will to carry on,” he said. Chitungo said the proceeds from the tournament will go towards assisting the underprivileged members of the ZNA and their dependents. “The ZNA has five charitable organisations. These include Tsanga Lodge Convalescence Centre, ZNA Benevolent Fund, Schools Welfare Trust, Widows and Orphans Fund as well as the ZNA Patients Welfare Fund. “All proceeds from fundraising initiatives like this will go towards those organisations.”