Ms Priscilla Misihairabwi-Mushonga Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter THE Ministry of Justice and Legal and Parliamentary Affairs and the Parliamentary Committee on Women and Youth have agreed to work together to ensure the enactment of the Marriages Bill as part of the Government’s 100 Day Plan. The push to pass the bill comes at a time when Parliament has previously urged the executive to come up with a law to end child marriages. Findings from a survey Amnesty International conducted last year in Zimbabwe show that many girls aged between 10 and 24 group are forced into early marriages. In an interview, the chairperson of the Women and Youth parliamentary portfolio committee Ms Priscilla Misihairabwi-Mushonga said she met Justice Minister Ziyambi Ziyambi over the matter. She said they agreed to work together to ensure that the Bill is passed before the lapse of the life of the current parliament. “I was sitting with the Minister of Justice and the permanent secretary and their staff. We have agreed that there are priority things we must achieve before elections which evolve around legislation and alignment of laws that deal with child marriages,” said Ms Misihairabwi-Mushonga, who is also Matabeleland South proportional representative member. “The Marriages Bill which is linked to child marriages issues is coming. We have agreed that it is one of the things in the 100 days that the Minister of Justice will be bringing to the House. They have given that commitment.” She said they also discussed issues around mandatory jail sentences for sexual abusers. “The problem is people do these things and get community service for three months and they think it is okay for them hence the need for mandatory jail sentences. “If we are giving mandatory jail sentences of nine years for stock theft why are we not giving a higher mandatory jail sentence for somebody who destroys a child’s life?” asked the lawmaker. Ms Misihairabwi-Mushonga said she was happy with the direction the new Government is taking as it presented a lot of opportunities for women’s issues. She said President Emmerson Mnangagwa was the first person to sign her pledge to end child marriages in Zimbabwe. The pledge initiated by Ms Misihairabwi-Mushonga was signed in the Parliament building on March 16 in 2016. This was after she had moved a motion on the protection of the girl child saying it was pivotal for MPs to take the lead and sign the pledge that they will never abuse children. “As a woman and a member of parliament I am excited because the direction is clear, I see opportunities with this new government. Our former Vice President who is now the president is passionate about these issues and I don’t see a problem and lack of political will in implementing some of these things,” said the MP. @thamamoe