Flue-cured tobacco Oliver Kazunga, Senior Business Reporter THE Zimbabwe Commercial Farmers’ Union (ZCFU) says tobacco deliveries are likely to hit the targeted 200 million kilogrammes mark this marketing season riding on the latest good rains. Most parts of the country had experienced a severe dry spell towards end of December into January this year, casting doubt on farmers’ targeted yields. In an interview yesterday, ZCFU president Mr Wonder Chabikwa said they were optimistic that the targeted 200 million kg of the golden leaf would be achieved this selling season, which begins mid next month. “We are hopeful that we will achieve our projection of 200 million kg of tobacco this selling season because of the rains that the country has received after the dry spell we experienced along the way in the 2017/18 summer cropping season. Due to the dry spell, we had lost hope that the targeted yields would be achieved,” he said. Last year, tobacco farmers achieved 189 million kg. Mr Chabikwa said irrigated tobacco was now being reaped while the rain fed crop was at various stages of growth with some developing new leaves as a result of the prevailing wet spell. “For the irrigated crop, the farmers are ready for marketing with the selling season beginning mid next month. “However, the rain fed crop, which was largely affected by the dry spell experienced for the greater part of the farming season, is starting to show signs of recovery with new leaves developing and that gives us hope that the quality of the crop and yield will be better than previously,” he said. Statistics from the Tobacco Industry and Marketing Board show that the area planted under tobacco crop in the 2017/18 cropping season has declined by 5.5 percent to 104 397 hectares from 110 518ha during the comparable period last year. The decline in the area planted under tobacco is largely attributed to the late onset of rains this summer farming season as most farmers in Zimbabwe depend on the rains. Of the total area planted, 15 779 ha were for the irrigated crop while 88 618ha were for the rain fed crop. @okazunga