 Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter ALTHOUGH lightning and bad light stopped play in the 55th minute of the ZNA Charities Shield semi-final match between Highlanders and Chicken Inn, the drainage system exposed bad workmanship at Barbourfields Stadium. Work was apparently done on the Barbourfields Stadium drainage system in 2014 ahead of the African Union Sports Council (AUSC) Region 5 Under-20 Youth Games, but the stadium’s turf resembled a swamp after about 15 minutes of rainfall. This clearly vindicated the Government’s move to order a forensic audit of the AUSC facilities before releasing payment, as shoddy work seems to have been carried out at most venues. Barbourfields Stadium was shut down in August 2014 for what was supposed to be a major facelift, particularly the drainage facility that has hounded the stadium for years, since the games were during the rainy season. The contractors have been demanding payment for shoddy work witnessed by thousands at Barbourfields Stadium. “It’s not only at Barbourfields Stadium; this is the reason why the Government demanded a full scale audit of the facilities before any payments. “People thought they could defraud the Government by submitting invoices with huge amounts for such shoddy work as you saw for yourself. “Most of the work was clearly not up to scratch,” said a director in the Ministry of Sport, Arts and Recreation. The contractor that worked on Barbourfields Stadium should have been left with egg on the face for constantly complaining that the Government was reneging on paying for services rendered. “People must be careful not to push the Government to the extreme because criminal charges can be preferred against those trying to fleece the government for such shoddy work. “It’s criminal to demand payment for something that you never did. “This is why we have agreed that we will start by paying those who supplied things like T-Shirts and other services while we deal decisively with those making noise when nothing tangible was done,” said the official. @skhumoyo2000