Cain Ncube and Khumbulani Sibanda Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter SPORTS directors from Bubi district will on Monday hold a preparatory meeting ahead of the National Association of Secondary School Heads (Nash) inter-schools track and field competitions that have been tentatively set for later this month at Siganda Secondary School. The directors will be drawn from the district’s seven secondary schools namely Mangubeni, Dabengwa, Majiji, Sijawugwe, Somvubu, Gloag  and defending champions Inyathi High School. “We have set our competition dates for February 22-23 at Siganda High School. “The meet will also be used to select our district team that will represent Bubi at the provincial finals in Tsholotsho where we hope to put up a decent performance. “Let me highlight that this coming Monday all sports directors from the district schools will meet to strategise ahead of the main competition days,” said Sijawugwe headmaster Cain Ncube, who is also the district head in charge of athletics. Provincial competitions will be held on March 8-9 at Mavela and Tsholotsho High Schools which will in turn culminate in the selection of a provincial team to represent Matabeleland North province at the national finals set for White City Stadium in Bulawayo next month. “The Monday meeting is basically to come up with a competition road map for our district meet. “We hope that after meeting the sports directors they will then impart that knowledge to their individual schools so that we have a well run competition,” said Ncube. Bubi district has always struggled at provincial competitions because of the few number of secondary schools compared to other six districts in the province but it has been their professional way of doing their things that has been the envy of many. Some urban districts, especially in Bulawayo, might learn one or two things from Bubi about how to run a smooth competition. Somvubu High School headmaster Khumbulani Sibanda is the Nash Bubi district chairperson. Former Highlanders striking sensation Prince Dube was discovered from Somvubu High where he was under the care of Sibanda. — @skhumoyo2000. 