 Tobias Mandoreba in Hwange BINGA Golf Association (BGA) has sent out an SOS to the corporate world and other well wishers to assist with resources to help in the growth of golf in this fishing town. The game of golf, usually seen as a preserve of the elite and mostly played in the urban areas, is slowly gaining prominence in Binga having been introduced in the area by the Mabikacheche Rural and Urban Sport Promotion (MARUSP) Golf foundation in 2013. The foundation is owned by Tavenganiswa Mabikacheche who for years now has embarked on a project to ensure rural folk countrywide get exposure to the sport. The association’s chairperson Givemore Gwafa made the passionate plea in an interview this week. “Firstly, as Binga community we are very grateful to MARUSP for their initiative which brought golf to Binga in 2013 with Binga High School being the first school to be introduced to it before other educational institutions and the community at large. MARUSP handed the running of golf affairs to the community in 2017 when we then formed a steering commitee. We are playing golf on an improvised nine hole course hence this appeal to the outside world for assistance to have a proper 18 hole course and a fully equipped club like in other areas.” said Gwafa. Notable strides have also been made by the committee in the recent past as efforts to put Binga on the nation’s golf map continue. “From 2014 we have made sure that our local golfers attend the annual Mabikacheche Urban and Rural golf tournaments, and last year we attended events in Harare and Hwange and also one to remember at Elephant Hills (Victoria Falls) where Kudakwashe Gwenge, Innocent Makwerere,  Fianceerose Dube and Obvious Ngwenya managed to get prizes despite being disadvantaged by lack of exposure to a decent course and right playing equipment like clubs and balls. We have applied to Binga Rural District Council to have land for the development of the golf course and we are confident of a positive response,” said Gwafa. Total Service Station (Binga) have chipped in with annual tournaments and preparations for this year’s tournament slated for April 7, 2018 are on course. Four clubs have been established in Siansundu, Nagangala, at Manjolo High and Binga Centre who have moulded other promising golfers like Rodney Siamwamwata, Pius Thebe, William Mwiinde, Tatenda Mpofu, Melusi Thebe, Kwanele Thebe, Nabel Maphosa, Primrose Dube, Cellin Mudimba, Praise Sianjema, Last Kwasha and Alex Mudimba. The Gwafa led BGA committee also comprises of Jenifa Muchimba (vice chairperson), Joshua Dube (secretary), Alice Utete (vice secretary), Edson Munyengeri (treasurer) and committee members Egnes Ngwenya, Jennifer Mudenda, Agabus Dube (technical) and Jeffrey Mthombeni (resource mobilisation). — @tobymandox