Sindi Dlathu Showbiz Reporter SOUTH African actress, Sindi Dlathu, who stunned Muvhango fans earlier this year when she announced that she was leaving the soapie in which she was the main attraction for 20 years, has moved on and is playing the lead role in new drama series The River. The actress has undeniably taken her audiences to M-Net’s Vuzu Amp that has been rebranded to 1Magic (DStv channel 103) where she is turning up the heat and keeping audiences glued to their screens. The River that is broadcast during weekdays is a thrill-a-minute showstopper that balances the tightrope between soapie and drama. The series is spearheaded by a formidable cast made up of seasoned actors Hlomla Dandala, Don Mlangeni, Moshidi Motshegwa and newcomer Larona Moagi among others. It is, quite simply, an impeccable story with jaw dropping acting, and cutting-edge production value. “The drama is the brainchild of a new production house called Thedza Pictures. Award-winning scriptwriter Phathu Makwarela penned the storyline,” 1Magic said in a statement. The River tells a story of ill placed love, greed, betrayal and blood bonds. It sees two different but interdependent worlds collide in spectacular fashion. One side of the river is populated by society’s upper crust in exquisite mansions with people who will go to any lengths to maintain their wealth. The other world is inhabited by the exploited “common folk” who constantly toil with little to show for it. Dlathu plays Lindiwe, a polished and astute mining magnate whose stilettos have squashed anyone who dared stand in the way of her wealth. Moagi is Itumeleng, the young character from the “poor” side of town who wants to put an end to Lindiwe’s ruthless gluttony, often at the expense of her beloved community. The drama, a masterpiece, is likely to win a couple of accolades. The Fergusons — Shona and Connie — who were tasked to supervise the production, have their presence felt as The River’s concepts are similar to those in The Queen which is their production.