Professor Callistus Ndlovu Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter ZANU-PF Bulawayo provincial chairman Professor Callistus Ndlovu has urged party members to unite and focus on national development. Addressing a Zanu-PF inter-district meeting at Nketa Hall on Wednesday, Prof Ndlovu said it was important for the party to concentrate on rebuilding and developing the party and the nation. “It’s now time for a new mindset. A mindset that is geared for peace and development. Let’s stop talking about who killed who in the past and try to concentrate on what we can do to bring development in our country. “Every individual has a past and we’ll never benefit anything from dwelling on the past. We want to preach peace and development within the party and be a good example to other parties. Let’s show other parties that we’re an organised group of people who don’t have time for violence, back biting and hating one another,” said Prof Ndlovu. He said President Mnangagwa has clearly advised party members not to treat other parties’ members like enemies but like opponents. “We’re all Zimbabweans and belonging to different political parties doesn’t make us enemies. It simply makes us opponents who have different views on certain issues. “People with different views can still work together and make their country prosper. “Hating other people will never bring food on our tables and it will never make us better people. Let’s show our opponents our vision. Let’s build a better future and be proud of ourselves one day,” said Prof Ndlovu. He said Bulawayo province was looking forward to the revival of companies and creation of employment. “I was happy to read about the resuscitation of David Whitehead and the employment of 2 000 people. This is a positive development and as Bulawayo we look forward to the revival of parastatals and industries in Bulawayo so that we go back to our status as the country’s industrial hub. “This is possible if we stop concentrating on things that we can’t change. We can change our future. Let’s therefore work together and make our country better than what it is now,” said Prof Ndlovu. He also urged party members to desist from violence as they prepare for party elections and harmonised elections. “Operation Restore Legacy was a peaceful and smart exercise. This shows that Zanu-PF is a great party that can change the situation peacefully without fighting anyone,” said Prof Ndlovu. The meeting was attended by party members from Area 5 which includes Wards 24, 25 and 26, provincial executive members, Politburo and Central Committee members and war veterans. — @pamelashumba1