BAA trophies Rumbidzai Mbewe LAST year saw the birth of the long awaited arts awards meant to recognise Bulawayo artistes. It was all glitz and glamour on the night with everyone scrambling to get on the red carpet to show off their outfits specially designed for the event. The bar was raised quite high and as such, those who attended urged organisers to host another edition. These calls have been heeded and as such people should start looking for their designer dresses or suits as the event is returning on May 26 and will once again be held at the Large City Hall. The organisers have promised that the event will be bigger than the inaugural edition as they picked up a lot of things that needed to be improved. One of the organisers, Nkululeko “Khuliyo” Nkala said preparations for the awards had already begun adding that they are hoping that everything will flow smoothly. He said they will be holding a corporate cocktail this Friday at Bulawayo Club, which will also serve as the launch of the awards. The cocktail, Nkala said was to establish relationships with the corporate world for the future of the arts industry in Bulawayo. “We’re very grateful for the support we received from the corporate world last year. This year, we’re reaching out to more corporates and are also inviting individuals who want to support and take the Bulawayo arts industry to another level,” Nkala said. He said people should expect an improved awards ceremony this year. Last year, the choreography was on point with different genres being fused together to come up with a masterpiece routine that kept people on the dance floor. The blending of old and new music took people back to their childhood. “Good music does not go out of fashion but keeps on extending its lifespan from generation to generation. We’re hoping that our artistes will produce music that will never go out of fashion just like what our fathers did before us,” he said. The venue, Nkala said, would not be changed unless there is need for a bigger venue. “The change of venue will only be determined by the number of tickets being sold out. We hope that people will come in their numbers to support us like they did last year. They caught us by surprise as we were not expecting such a huge turnout.” The inaugural BAAs held on June 30 last year took place at the Large City Hall and generated a lot of interest among members of the public and this gave the organisers the verve to host another edition. Sandra Ndebele, Cal Vin, Iyasa and Madlela Skhobokhobo were among artistes that were honoured and also took turns to perform. @rumbie_mbewe