Brendan Taylor WITH the International Cricket Council (ICC) World Cup Qualifiers in Zimbabwe less than a month away, there’s plenty of pressure on the teams gearing up for the tournament. While Zimbabwe have already kicked off their preparations with the tri-series in Bangladesh, Afghanistan were forced to take a month-long break with no cricket coming their way. After the 2-0 win in the two-match Twenty20 International series over Zimbabwe, Afghanistan will be buoyed ahead of the five-match ODI series and the all-important tournament. However, this series also happens to be their last shot at ironing out all the rough edges before they take on the likes of West Indies, Ireland, Scotland and their current opponents. With just two teams qualifying for the World Cup in 2019, it will be crucial for teams to play their perfect game and leave nothing to chance. Zimbabwe should take heart from their performance in Bangladesh where they managed to trounce Sri Lanka, but then failed to recover quickly from their mistakes while suffering three defeats. The biggest challenge for them on this tour as well will be to find a quick fix to tackle the spin arsenal Afghanistan are going to attack them with. Rashid Khan and Mohammad Nabi are both experienced campaigners, while all eyes will be on Mujeeb Zadran and how he handles the pressure of playing at the highest level. He has played three ODIs and two T20Is and there are plenty of promising signs already. The more experience he can get, the better it will be for him and the team. Afghanistan will also need Mohammad Shahzad to find his form soon. After serving a one-year ban for doping violations, he returned in the T20I series, but could score just 20 and 17 in the two games. When: Afghanistan vs Zimbabwe, 1st ODI, February 9 (today) Where: Sharjah Cricket Association Stadium, Sharjah What to expect: Pleasant conditions will welcome the teams for the contest and a full game is expected. The preceding T20I series saw moderate scores and conditions are expected to stay the same. The batsmen will have to work hard for their runs. Team news Afghanistan: After the two wins in T20Is, it’s unlikely they’ll tinker with the combination, and will look to field the same core. Zimbabwe: he visitors have included Brian Vitori in the squad as he was allowed to resume bowling in international cricket last month after working on his action. He picked up three wickets playing for Zimbabwe A against Kenya and would look to put the tough few months behind him. What they said “Shahzad is an experienced player and has been part of the national side for the past eight years. His return will strengthen the batting line-up and because he is also excellent behind the stumps, his inclusion will give us more options and we will not have to play a separate opener and a wicketkeeper.” – Asghar Stanikzai. “Brendan and Kyle have settled nicely into the squad and they have been welcomed by all the team members. They form an important part of our team’s make-up, and we are hoping that they will play to the best of their abilities on this tour and in the qualifier.” – Graeme Cremer. Teams Afghanistan: Asghar Stanikzai (c), Mohammad Shahzad (wk), Javed Ahmadi, Ihsanullah Janat, Rahmat Shah,                 Najibullah Zadran, Samiullah Shinwari, Nasir Jamal,          Mohammad Nabi, Gulbadin Naib, Rashid Khan, Mujeeb      Zadran, Sharafuddin Ashraf, Dawlat Zadran, Shapoor Zadran. Zimbabwe: Graeme Cremer (c), Hamilton Masakadza, Solomon Mire, Craig Ervine, Brendan Taylor (wk), Sikandar Raza, Peter Moor, Malcolm Waller, Brian Vitori, Tendai Chisoro, Blessing Muzarabani, Ryan Burl, Tendai Chatara, Kyle Jarvis. —Cricbuzz