Bekithemba Ndlovu Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter HOW Mine coach Bekithemba Ndlovu is happy with how his team is shaping up ahead of the 2018 Premiership season kick-off on March 10. The gold miners were hit by a player exodus, forcing the club to revise its strategy to rebuild a team using “unknowns” and a few players from last season to compete in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League. Financial challenges that hit the gold miners last season and saw players striking over outstanding salaries, bonuses and signing-on fees forced senior players to look for greener pastures. They also lost head coach Kelvin Kaindu, who returned to his native Zambia to take charge of Power Dynamos. The gold miners played two training games against Bulawayo City on Saturday, losing 0-1 in the first match and drawing the second game 2-2. “Things are shaping up well, so far so good, and I’m happy that the team is shaping up. We are doing our best to make sure that we assemble a squad that will effectively compete in the Premiership. We lost almost all the senior players and now we’re in a rebuilding exercise,” said Ndlovu. “Our target is to have a squad that will ensure we survive relegation because at the end of the day, whether you rebuild or not, what is important is to deliver. Right now we are working on combinations and trying to see if the boys can endure in terms of physical fitness.” How Mine seem to have balance in their squad, as they managed to retain some experienced players for key positions. Skipper and Zambian expatriate Makundika Sakala, who can either play in central defence as well as in midfield, left-back Brian Mbiriri, utility player Milton Ncube, midfielder Peter “Rio” Moyo and experienced striker Kuda Musharu are still at the club. Nomadic former Chicken Inn, ZPC Kariba and Bulawayo City goalkeeper Liberty Chirava, ex-Highlanders and Bantu Rovers defender Dumisani Ndlovu, imposing defender Victor Kamhuka and Young Warriors’ defender Shadreck Nyahwa are training with the squad. How Mine have retained juniors like midfielder Adolf Muganyi, utility player Nqobile Ndlovu and dribbling wizard Tanaka Chanengeta. How Mine have also added former Hwange and Caps United goalkeeper Witness Munkuli and ex-AmaZulu wingback Golding Dube as well as Farai Tawachera to their technical team. @ZililoR