 Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter THE Matabeleland Amateur Swimming Board (MASB) has announced a 61-member squad to represent the province at the National Senior Swimming Championships to be held at the Bulawayo City Pool in mid-February. The squad consists of 23 girls and 38 boys. MASB press liaison officer Thomas Werret said the squad was the strongest they could come up with. “We have put together the best team and I have no doubt they will win a number of medals. The team was selected according to performances in previous competitions. The swimmers will all be vying to qualify for the South Africa galas and to make it into the Zimbabwe team that will compete at the African Swimming Confederation (CANA) Zone 4 Championships to be held in South Africa later this year,” said Werret. Bulawayo swimmers will continue training at their respective clubs until combined training sessions are held later during the month at City Pool. Matabeleland have played second fiddle to Mashonaland in the past three years and will be hoping to upstage the champions at this year’s edition. Lorna Riley and Barney O’Hara will coach the Matabeleland team, with Jackie Oostindien as manager. Dale Bruce will captain the boys’ team, while Siduduziwe Mswabuki skippers the girls. Squad  Erin Bent, Tawanda Jani, Dale Bruce, Tait Mills, Romeo Kahwema, Kayden Bhana, Stacey Babbage, Avril Carinus, Munashe Bera, Neziah Kinnaird, Roan Isemonger, Liam O’Hara, Nozintaba Masiye-Moyo, Aisha Mahomed, Wandile Banda, Caitlin O’Donnell, Sancia Bravo, Lavarn Jones, Deon Omphile, Siduduziwe Mswabuki, Darren Ncube, Lindiwe Bhebhe, Tyler Varley, Vidal Bravo, Ocean Lacey, Jake Oostindien, Nathan Ngwenya, Chante Querl, Deni Cyprianos, Temwani Chibiya, Joash McKonie, Phiwo Moyo, Onesmius Ngwenya, Timea Schultz, Dylan Lee, Jade Chicksen, Ruan Nel, Tsepile Ngwenya, Fanuel Zvenyika, Tichatonga Makaya, Jayden de Swardt, Reece Rollo, Nontutuzelo Nyathi, Farhaan May, Zoe Gangira, Riana Rollo, Jasper Mpofu, Brett Jones, Stacey Sayi, Tsepang Ndlovu, Dean Jones, Khaya Vimba. @innocentskizoe