Chelsea Mguni Yoliswa Dube WOW. It’s been a minute! I must admit, I’ve thoroughly missed this column. You may not have noticed it hasn’t been running for a bit but if you have, I’ve missed you too. A few months ago, a friend said to me, “I hope marriage won’t change you because marriage is the death of women”. I didn’t read much into it until recently when I realised 24 hours may just not be enough time in the day! I mean, in-between the cleaning and cooking, work and other wife duties. It really may just become easier to “die”. You’ll find yourself out of time to do girly things and when you have the opportunity to dress up and go somewhere, you’re probably rushing and running late because you had to do the dishes before leaving the house. It becomes easier to wear flats because a pair of high heels could be a little more work. You somehow start to miss salon appointments because you’re just too busy and end up having to go for a while longer with crappy hair or broken nails with chipped nail polish. It’s easier letting your brows grow in because you don’t have the time to get them threaded and even if you do thread them, it’s a hassle filling them in every morning because time is not always on your side. Somehow, you find yourself investing lots of time taking care of other people and completely forget about yourself. You forget that you’re a woman first. You’ve got to look and feel beautiful. You forget that you have a career to advance and a reputation to maintain. People will easily throw around the “useshorostekile” tag but don’t realise you’re a hardworking woman who is just tired. I say find time for yourself each and every day. Do something nice for you and don’t feel bad about it. If you can do your chores ahead of time, do that and make sure you have enough time to do your make-up properly whenever you need to. When your hair is due to be done, go to the salon and get yourself hooked up. Unless someone is dying, don’t deny yourself some down time because of a few creased clothes in your laundry basket that need ironing. You can iron them after your hair and nails are done. Of course being dress appropriate counts all the more now but that doesn’t mean you have to dress shabbily. If you need to play makoti somewhere, wear a maxi dress or skirt or invest in dresses that you can dress down with flats or pimp up with heels. When you’re hanging with the girls or heading for work, slay girl! Don’t let yourself go to waste; put in the extra work and trust me, you’ll feel good about yourself. If combing your hair every morning would be too much work for you, try braiding your hair. I’ve seen new mothers love this and I quite frankly think it would save you a lot of time every morning. If short hair is your thing, do that but keep things interesting with your jewellery and make-up. If you’re going to have to wear kitten heels instead of a six inch pair, do those instead of flip flops. Do whatever it takes to look your best and don’t forget to save yourself some “you” time. Constantly remind yourself that you’re an individual who still has to conquer in other spheres of life therefore you HAVE to slay! Until next week, flaunt your pattern and style and don’t forget to catch up with me on Twitter handle @Yolisswa.