Para Matsika Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter OLD Miltonians are confident of defending their Bulawayo Metropolitan Rugby Football Board Under-21 title when they take on Matabeleland Warriors in the final at Hartsfield Ground tomorrow. OMs had to dig deep to dump 2016 champions Highlanders in the semi-finals with a 5-8 victory last Saturday. Going into the must win semi-final, OMs had suffered an 18-14 defeat to Highlanders during the group stages. Para Matsika, the OMs coach, heaped praises on his charges for their spirited fight to reach the finals where they now face Warriors, who sailed to the final without losing a game. Warriors clobbered OMs 22-8 during the group stages, a result that Matsika believes has no bearing in the final. “I think being the defending champions, we’re under pressure to retain the title and that pressure is what will get the boys to bring their A-game on Saturday. It’s going to be a good game against a strong Warriors’ squad which beat us in the group stages,” said Matsika. OMs will bank on flanker Daniel Nyathi, centre players Genius Masuku and Kgosi Ndebele as well as forwards Tanaka Chikaka and Innocent Ncube. Jafet Ndebele, the Warriors’ coach, who led his side in an unbeaten four-match run on their way to the final, said they were ready for OMs. “Despite having not lost a game during the group stages, I feel we’re the underdogs. We’re going to give our all because this is anyone’s game. I think that anyone who wants it more will take this one. We beat them during the group stages but that doesn’t guarantee us a win. We have to work hard because if you look at the rugby ball, it has an irregular shape, meaning it can bounce in any direction. However, after seeing my boys giving their best during the group stages, I’m confident that we’ll win,” Ndebele said. Warriors’ key players in the final include centre Takudzwa Gamanya, fullback Theo Goredema, Lungile Mafikela (prop) and centre Leon Masichili. Meanwhile, Highlanders and Bulldogs will play in the third place play-off. — @ZililoR