Cde Simon Khaya Moyo Richard Muponde, Plumtree Correspondent THE Acting Minister of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services, Cde Simon Khaya Moyo, yesterday said people should unite and work to develop their areas. Addressing hundreds of people from all walks of life and different political persuasions during the burial of the late Plumtree businessman and politician, Cde Albert Matiwaza at his home in Plumtree, Cde Moyo who is also the Minister of Energy and Power Development, said people should be united and live in peace as was the character of the late. “We appreciate the work he did as a businessman and he was politically active until the time he met a tragedy which left him paralysed in the 1980s. He was man of purpose, perseverance and prayer. We should be united and work for the development of Plumtree. Plumtree is an acronym for Peace, Love, Unity, Manpower, Trust, Resources, Entry, Exist. We should create opportunities for our people,” said Cde Moyo. He reminded some elements from opposition political parties who tried to grandstand at the funeral over the 1980s disturbances to respect the Matiwaza family and find another platform for their activities. “We are here to console the family which is grieving. We should not add fire to the pain they already have. Those who want to talk about their parties should call for a rally and address people there not at the funeral,” he said. Cde Matiwaza’s young brother, Retired Brigadier General, Ben Matiwaza described his late brother as a humble person and a man of the people. “He was a humble man, very lovely, a unifier of the people. He was a man of the people and a prayerful man who loved his God. The gap he has left in the family is very huge and no one can fill it,” said Rtd Brig Gen Matiwaza. He said his brother used to run businesses in Plumtree before he was injured during the 1980s disturbances. “He was injured in 1984. He had three operations to try to rectify the injuries on the head.  He also underwent an operation in 2016 for colon cancer and had not fully recovered until the time of his death,” he said. Rtd Brig Gen Matiwaza urged people to be humble and said they must learn from his brother who was a unifier. “They should stop the bitterness of the past. I see some people still have that bitterness of the past disturbances but Government is rectifying the issue. Unity must prevail because without unity you can’t build a nation and that should start at family level,” said Rtd Brig Gen Matiwaza His widow Mrs Rhoda Matiwaza said her husband died in hospital in Bulawayo last Friday.