 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter AS Bulawayo readies itself to host next month’s ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier, domestic matches have been moved to Petra High School and Emakhandeni Cricket Centre to keep players active. Zimbabwe, Afghanistan, Hong Kong, Scotland and runners-up from the ICC World Cricket League Division Two will play their group matches in Bulawayo from March 4-12. The biggest match of the qualifiers in the city is the clash between Zimbabwe and Afghanistan at Queens Sports Club on March 6. Group A is made up of West Indies, Ireland, Netherlands, Papua New Guinea and the World Cricket League Division Two League champions. Fixtures for this pool are scheduled for Harare Sports Club and Old Hararians. Kwekwe Sports Club will be used for the play-off games. Nicholas Singo, the Bulawayo Metropolitan Cricket Association administrator, who is also the Bulawayo local organising committee chairman, said they had to change the format of the domestic league from 50-over games to T20. “We haven’t abandoned domestic cricket at all and that is why we engaged Petra High School to host our four First League sides, while Emakhandeni became home to the Second League, as we work on our ICC World Cup Qualifier preparations. “We also changed the format of the game to T20 so that all teams get to play,” said Singo. Teams in the First League are BAC, Queens Sports Club, Roosters and Emakhandeni. LSU, Nust, BAC 2, Queens 2 and Emakhandeni 2 make up the second league. Meanwhile, Singo said selection for the provincial junior teams that will compete in Zimbabwe Cricket organised inter-provincial tournaments in April will start after the Qualifiers. “Provincial selectors have started the process of identifying their junior sides, which are the Under-14s, Under-16s and Under-18s, for the annual juniors’ tournaments. “The Under-14s and Under-18s will be in Harare, while the Under-16 national tournament will be in Mutare. “As Bulawayo, because of limited facilities, we’ve decided to have our selection after the Qualifiers,” Singo said. @ZililoR