Dynamos coach Lloyd Mutasa Eddie Chikamhi, Harare Bureau Caps United 0  – 1 Dynamos AFTER a week of turbulence in the Dynamos camp, the rookies carried the day for the Glamour Boys as Lloyd Mutasa’s youngsters staged a brave fight to edge Caps United in the semi-final of the Commander ZNA Charities at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. DeMbare’s 19-year-old midfielder Kudzanai Dhemere scored the solitary goal of the match moments after the restart as Mutasa yesterday reaped the dividends for his faith in young players. As was largely expected, the Harare giants missed most of their key players who embarked on an industrial action in protest over unpaid bonuses and salaries owed from last season. But amid the turmoil, Mutasa yesterday saw something special in his youngsters. It is always something to savour for the Glamour Boys to win the clashes against the Green Machine every time the teams meet and for them to do it with a largely inexperienced side, against an almost full strength Caps United, was a special feat for Mutasa. “I am happy for the youngsters. If you look at us we had a number of (senior) players who were out of this game and these youngsters did very well. With everyone in the team I am sure we will be able to be a competitive side. “This wasn’t an easy match. The idea was to tell the youngsters what it means to play Caps United when you wear that blue jersey and we told them that some great players managed to be recognised after featuring in such derbies.,” said Mutasa. Dhemere, who turns 20 in June, was one of the best players on show for DeMbare yesterday. Marshal Machazane and Godfrey Mukambi are the only senior players from last season who featured in the game and managed to hold the team together as twin centrebacks. Blessing Moyo, who is returning to the side this year, started together with Cleopas Kapupurika and Tawanda Macheke. Valentine Kadonzo and Romario Matova, who made cameo appearances last season, also got their opportunities in the absence of senior players Ocean Mushure, Obey Mwerahari, Joel Epoupa, Quality Kangadze, Valentine Ndaba, Emmanuel Mandiranga and Peace Makaha who is also nursing an ankle injury. The Green Machine had the better of the exchanges and they came back for the second half with a bit of urgency in their play. However, it was Dynamos who managed to get the goal following a move conducted by Kapupurika on the left side after getting the better of veteran Method Mwanjali. There was nothing goalkeeper Prosper Chigumba could do after Dhemere controlled the ball well before picking his spot from inside the box on the hour mark to put DeMbare ahead against the run of play. Teams Caps United: P. Chigumba, K. Nyamupfukudza, J. Jangano, M. Mwanjale, S. Makatuka, C. Kamhapa, D. Mukandi (P. Tonha, 46th min), H. Zvirekwi, J. Ngodzo (B. Muzondiwa, 66th min), J. Zhuwawu, C. Machisi (O. Machapa, 32nd min) Dynamos: B. Mwandimutsira, B. Moyo, R. matova, M. Machazane, G. Mukambi, J. Marufu, K. Dhemere, T. Makuvatsine (T. Muringani, (73rd min), V. Kadonzvo, C. Kapupurika (P. Mutasa, 70th min), T. Macheke