 Nothabo Nyathi, Chronicle Reporter AN estranged Victoria Falls man has dragged his wife’s alleged boyfriend to court demanding $1 000 for destroying his marriage. Mr Stanford Ncube is legally married to Mrs Sithembile Ncube but the two have been living separately since October last year. The couple has children who live with Mrs Ncube while Mr Ncube is renting elsewhere in Victoria Falls. On Monday, Mr Ncube told magistrate Ms Rangarirai Gakanje at the Victoria Falls Civil Court that he discovered the adulterous affair in October last year when the defendant, Mr John Matumbura, visited his wife’s residence at night. Mr Ncube told the magistrate that Mr Matumbura offered $1 000 to conceal the matter saying he was afraid of being exposed since he is a church elder in Victoria Falls. The name of the church was not given. Mr Ncube said the defendant only paid $150 and now wants the court to help him claim the adultery damages. “We are living separately with my wife after I moved out of our matrimonial home because we were always quarrelling. I decided to visit my children last year on October 22 and at night I went to watch soccer with a friend who lives next door. That’s when I saw John who had a phone in hand, walking into the house where my wife and kids were,” said Mr Ncube. He said he was shocked when Mrs Ncube opened the door for Mr Matumbura and the two spent three hours inside. “I confronted him as he left the house three hours later and he fled while begging for forgiveness as I gave chase. He went to the police to file a case of assault yet I had not beaten him,” said Mr Ncube. The magistrate quizzed Mr Ncube on why he waited outside the house for three hours knowing his wife was inside with another man. Mr Ncube said he was waiting for an opportunity to catch the two red-handed. He said the defendant and Mrs Ncube admitted at the police station that they were having an extra marital affair upon which Mr Matumbura offered to pay $1 000 as compensation. However, the defendant, who is being represented by Mr Givemore Mvhiringi of Mvhiringi and Partners, told the court that he didn’t know Mr Ncube. He also denied having an affair with Mrs Ncube and ever paying Mr Ncube any money. “I’m not having an affair with his wife and I don’t personally know both of them. I only met his wife on October 22 when she hired my taxi and I went to drop her at her place. I didn’t enter the house but just stood by the door waiting for my payment,” said Mr Matumbura. Asked by the magistrate about the alleged $150 he sent the applicant, Mr Matumbura said he wrongly sent the money to Mr Ncube who immediately used it hence it could not be retrieved. Mr Matumbura has also filed theft and assault charges against Mr Ncube. The case will continue on Thursday next week. @nyathi_nothabo