Musa Mandaza Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIFA Southern Region is in sponsorship talks with its traditional partners Nokel Security, Trukumb Mining Enterprises and Liquor Hub Wholesalers, whom they hope will renew their deals for the 2018 season. Nokel Security has been sponsoring the Division One league’s top goal scorer of the month award for the past four years to motivate strikers to score more goals in the second tier league. Last season Nokel increased its monthly prize money for the top scorer from $150 to $200. Musa Mandaza, Zifa Southern Region chairman, told affiliates at the annual general meeting on Saturday that negotiations were still underway with Nokel, Trukumb Mining Enterprises and Liquor Hub Wholesalers. Trukumb Mining Enterprises sponsors the eight-team Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo Memorial Cup that was launched in 2016. The 2017 sponsorship package for the memorial cup was $10 000. Bulawayo businessman Raj Modi bankrolled last year’s edition of the John Landa Nkomo Memorial Cup contested by four teams to the tune of $5 000. “We haven’t signed any sponsorship deals as yet. We’re still negotiating with our traditional sponsors with the hope of continuing our partnerships. “We also reported to the members that something is brewing at a national level, with a possible sponsorship deal for the four regions. If something substantial comes up from the deal that the regions are negotiating for, we will give the provinces a piece of the cake,” said Mandaza. He could not be drawn into revealing what is brewing at national level. Some affiliates are, however, skeptical about the “brewing deal” at national level, saying they could be taking them for a ride since it’s Zifa election year. “It’s hard to believe what these guys say in terms of sponsorship being worked on for regions and possibly provinces. We always hear of such talk every time there are elections. “We will just wait and see what happens, otherwise our focus is on the championship. We also asked them to engage Zifa on reduction of match officials’ fees,” said a delegate, who attended the Zifa Southern Region annual general meeting. Referees’ fees are pegged at $220 for Division One clubs and the home team is responsible for the payment in addition to travelling expenses. @ZililoR