 Showbiz Correspondent SUPERHERO film Black Panther that has been getting rave reviews from critics around the world will premiere in Zimbabwe next week at the Ster Kinekor movie house in Bulawayo. The movie features Zimbabwe’s Danai Gurira who stars in the hit series The Walking Dead, multi award winning actress Lupita Nyong’o, Chadwick Boseman as T’Challa / Black Panther, Michael B Jordan, Martin Freeman, Daniel Kaluuya, Letitia Wright, Winston Duke, Angela Bassett, Forest Whitaker and Andy Serkis. Black Panther has already broken records after selling more advance tickets than any other superhero film, according to Fandango. Adding to the hype is the first wave of critical reviews, with a full positive consensus resulting in a 100 percent on Rotten Tomatoes from 64 reviews. Black Panther will be premiered in Bulawayo next Friday in 3D at the Ster Kinekor Cinema 1 as from 6PM. Ster Kinekor spokesperson Maybe Simbisai said advance tickets were already on sale. She said there will be a dress code competition during the premiere. “Each ticket will cost $8 for the 3D movie as the glasses have gone up. For those who’ll be watching it on 2D the movie will cost $6. A dress code competition is on the cards with prizes for the best according to the theme, African royalty, which is in line with the movie,” said Simbisai. She said as this was also the month of love Ster Kinekor had a special where people could watch three movies for the price of $10 called For the Love of Cinema. “This promotion runs until the end of this month. There shall be a weekly price draw for people who redeem their movie cards. Already someone has won a meal voucher for two at Holiday Inn. The grand prize is an all expenses paid trip for two to Victoria Falls,” said Simbisai. She added: The promotion isn’t valid for the days when we have movie premieres or special days but on normal days people can pay $10 per person for three movies this month.” Meanwhile raunchy movie Fifty Shades Darker will premiere tonight at the Ster Kinekor Cinema 1.