President Emmerson Mnangagwa Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa has described his first 100 days in office as a success saying the country has laid a good foundation towards economic revival while pledging to increase the pace of reforms. Cde Mnangagwa, who was inaugurated on November 24 last year following the launch of Operation Restore Legacy, said he was aware of the people’s frustrations at the pace of change but this was the beginning of brighter things to come. In a two-minute video posted on his Facebook page last Friday touching on his 100 days in office, the President said one of his commitments was to be a listening President governing by dialogue. “Across all areas, it has been a time of action. On the economy we passed a bold, responsive budget that cut huge swathes of waste, scaled back the Indigenisation Act to open the economy to investment, facilitated greater use of mobile money to combat the cash crisis and cut excise duty on petrol and small bank transfers,” he said. On corruption, President Mnangagwa said the phrase a ‘Zero Tolerance Approach’ had been backed up by action. “We instituted a three-month amnesty to get back stolen funds, mandated all Cabinet Ministers to declare assets, created dedicated anti-corruption courts in all provinces and clamped down on police roadblocks,” said President Mnangagwa. He said his Government was committed to international engagements and focusing on turning around the economy. The President said the country had received overwhelming commitments to its re-engagements efforts. “Internationally, we have been working hard to rebuild our international relations and bring in investment and so far we have secured $3 billion of investment commitments from some of the biggest companies in the world,” said President Mnangagwa. Turning to human development, the President said he had ensured free health care for vulnerable groups, while increasing the health and education budgets. He said Zimbabweans must take into account that change takes time. “We must of course be realistic and recognise that it takes more than 100 days to recover the economy. Real change takes time. I know there are those among you who are frustrated at the pace of change and I understand that but let me assure you that though we have had some major achievements, this is just the beginning,” Cde Mnangagwa said. “After 100 days of action we are on the right path and will keep working to increase the pace of reform. Together we will build a new prosperous and democratic Zimbabwe for all”. In his inauguration speech, President Mnangagwa said his Government would implement sweeping measures across sectors to stimulate economic growth and create jobs. He also pledged to tackle the cash liquidity challenges, act on corruption, relax export procedures, ensure maximum utilisation of land and protect foreign investments, among other policies. Last week, while commissioning wagons and locomotives at the National Railways of Zimbabwe, President Mnangagwa said the revival of big industries in the mining, agriculture and manufacturing sectors is top of Government’s agenda as the nation seeks to transform the economy and create jobs for Zimbabweans. Addressing a large gathering that witnessed the reception of the interim solution equipment under the NRZ $400 million recapitalisation plan in Bulawayo, the President said comprehensive measures were being put in place to revitalise big industries in order to create a conducive climate for increased investment. The Diaspora Infrastructure Development Group (DIDG)/Transnet Consortium has partnered with NRZ to recapitalise the NRZ to the tune of $400 million and the deal is expected to be concluded by June this year. Under the interim solution deal, NRZ will lease 13 locomotives, 200 wagons and 34 passenger coaches from Transnet to address key resource gaps in its operations while negotiations for the $400 million recapitalisation package are being finalised. Already 150 wagons, seven locomotives and seven passenger coaches have been delivered with the remainder expected to be in the country by April this year. @AuxiliaK