Professor Paul Mavhima Richard Muponde, Plumtree Correspondent GOVERNEMNT will today start distributing learning material to 5 000 rural schools to meet requirements of the new curriculum. This comes as a huge relief to most rural teachers who were working without sufficient learning material since adoption of the new curriculum. Addressing scores of teachers from Bulilima and Mangwe districts and education managers from Matabeleland region at Plumtree High School chapel on Friday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, Professor Paul Mavhima, said there was no going back on the new curriculum. He said the new education plan was the backbone of the country’s socio-economic transformation and scrapping it would be tantamount to dragging the country to the 19th century when other countries were progressing. “Rural schools are going to be provided with learning material and this will be done within the 100 days of this dispensation. On the 26th (today) we are going to distribute material to 5 000 schools in the country, which are disadvantaged schools,” said the minister. “The material has started being collected and the launch is this month. Some advantaged schools have been able to buy their own learning material. So we are targeting disadvantaged and marginalised schools, which you represent here.” Prof Mavhima said there was also a facility for teachers to be trained in the skills, which conform to the new curriculum so that they effectively implement the new education plan. “You need to be trained in Information Communication Technology (ICT). I have said let’s streamline our programme for teachers so that all the requisites of the new curriculum are imparted in you to teach learners. Resources permit those who want to advance to first degrees, masters or PHDs, we need to pay attention to the career development of each individual teacher,” he said drawing applause from the audience. Prof Mavhima said the career development programme started in 2014 and they were about to graduate the first batch. Also addressing the educationists, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Dr Sylvia Utete-Masango, said without teachers the education system in the country was doomed. “I am fully aware of the complaints you have especially your own training and general conditions of work. Despite all the trepidations we have as a ministry we are the nucleus of this nation. “The industrialisation of our country hinges on the ministry. Teachers you are the front-runners of our country’s development and without you the country goes nowhere,” she said. @richardmuponde