Joseph Muchechetere Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Sports and Recreation Commission (SRC) has been tasked with spearheading implementation of sport and recreation projects as part of the Government’s 100-Day Quick Wins Rapid Results Initiative. This is in line with the Government’s new approach to make Zimbabwe an attractive investment destination. “Pursuant to the above development, President Mnangagwa (Emmerson) has directed that all ministries, state enterprises and parastatals are expected to come up with 100 days of Action Plans that would kick start the turnaround process. In line with that requirement, the SRC will execute the following projects: Improving national sport and recreation organisations’ compliance, cricket for good project and community sport and recreation festivals,” said the acting SRC director general Joseph Muchechetere. The new way of doing business will see the SRC pushing to increase compliance of at least 32 registered National Sports Associations (NSAs) to more than 50 percent of statutory submissions by April 10, 2018. Under this initiative, the SRC will ensure that registered NSAs meet the provisions of the SRC Act Chapter 25:15 of 1991 and Statutory Instrument 342 of 1995. “At this stage, only 15 NSAs are in good standing with the SRC and the rest fall far below expected compliance levels. Governance and compliance are critical to the realisation of sound administration of any organisation, and without this, the sport and recreation sector would not be attractive to potential sponsors, donors and other well-wishers crucial to the delivery of quality sport and recreation programmes. “All NSAs are therefore expected to abide by international standards and best practice. For the sport and recreation sector to transform into a viable industry capable of contributing to the GDP, it is important that sport and recreation organisations, sport administrators and practitioners observe strict adherence to existing laws, policies and other tenets of good corporate governance,” said Muchechetere. On the Cricket for Good plan of action, the SRC said it will mobilise local organisations, partners and social development practitioners to deliver health education, anti-doping education and Olympic Values education to young participants through partners such as the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education, Zimbabwe Olympic Committee, Tambai Zimbabwe and Generations for Peace. “Broadly speaking, the ICC WC Qualifiers and Cricket for Good project are expected to benefit the country in the following ways: 640 young cricket players reached through cricket coaching sessions, 150 high profile cricket players involved as role models and coaches, Estimated 500 visiting cricket supporters/tourists, estimated $2 million foreign currency inflows, estimated 15 000 spectatorship at cricket matches, estimated five million television global viewership, breaking down social barriers to participation in a quality sports programme, and cricket infrastructure refurbished at participating schools,” said Muchechetere. Zimbabwe will host the ICC World Cup Qualifiers in Bulawayo, Harare and Kwekwe from March 2- 25, featuring 10 men’s national cricket teams from Afghanistan, Hong Kong, Ireland, Netherlands, Papua New Guinea, Scotland, West Indies and Zimbabwe. The Cricket for Good Project is a corporate social responsibility platform of the ICC WC qualifiers upon which high profile cricket players drawn from the 10 participating countries will deliver cricket coaching sessions to children below the age of 13 from targeted, poorly resourced schools in Harare, Kwekwe and Bulawayo. All registered NSAs have been challenged by the SRC to implement their own projects as part of the 100 Day Quick Win Rapid Results Approach. The projects, according to Muchechetere, must be of importance and benefit to the communities and the country as a whole. “Initiatives such as the African Union Sports Council Region 5 Golf Championship to be hosted by the Zimbabwe Golf Association next month and the ATU Troutbeck Triathlon Cup to be hosted by Triathlon Zimbabwe were noted to fit in very well within the requirements of the Rapid Results Approach and the SRC will provide technical support to these and other associations in an effort to earn the country foreign currency, enhance tourist arrivals and improve the country’s image,” he said. During the first 100 Day Turnaround Period, the SRC will support the hosting of 20 Community Sport and Recreation Festivals in the 10 provinces. The festivals will involve community sport and recreation clubs, schools, colleges, universities and NGOs taking part in sport, recreation, arts and cultural activities at a community level. “It is envisaged that through these platforms, people will adopt active life styles centred on regular physical activity and exercise, produce artefacts for sale and exhibition locally, regionally and internationally, and also that local performing artists and groups will enhance their performances thereby attracting potential offers for international exposure with the potential to earn foreign currency for the country,” said Muchechetere. @skhumoyo2000