Benjamin Lock Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau ZIMBABWE’S number one tennis player Benjamin Lock says they need to start their Davis Cup campaign on a positive note in the first singles matches today in the Europe/Africa Group II first round against Turkey at Harare Sports Club. Lock will be the first Zimbabwean player on the court when he takes on Turkey’s number two Altug Celikbilek in the opening match of the contest this morning. Takanyi Garanganga, who is coming in as the country’s number two, has a date against Cem Ilkel, the visitors’ number one following the draw held yesterday at the match venue. The singles matches will be followed by the doubles tomorrow morning. And for Zimbabwe it’s likely to be Lock and Garanganga all the way as they are set to team-up for the doubles before they play the reverse singles. But today, the country’s top players have to focus their energies on their singles matches, and Lock said a win in one of the matches if not both will put them in a good position ahead of day two tomorrow. “It’s going to be really important, I think the first day to get a singles is vital for the Davis Cup tie and to get both you put yourself in a really good position. Obviously if you lose both, you put yourself in a hole. “So I think we really have to have good urgency tomorrow, come out there sharp, play well and just play to our best abilities because I think if we can go into Sunday with one match under our belts, our chances are really good. “And obviously if we have two matches then we are looking very close to the finish line. So tomorrow is a very important day,” said Lock. Lock, who has in the previous ties usually come in as the number two player said it’s an honour to lead the team in the first match this time around. “I feel great. Obviously very excited to open up the Davis Cup. I think it’s a big honour to do that and it will be my first. In the past Davis Cup ties, Takanyi has always played first and so I think it’s going to be a different experience for me just…the positioning. “But nothing really changes once you start playing the match and now I am just very excited and looking forward to starting off at 10 o’clock,” added the 24-year-old. Lock and Celikbilek, met recently in the ITF Futures, in Turkey, in a doubles match and as they go into today’s encounter they know what to expect of each other, which makes their date interesting although the former is also banking on home advantage. Celikbilek will also be making his debut Davis Cup appearance and is looking forward to the match. “It’s a good draw first of all. I know Benjamin Lock from a couple of tournaments in Turkey, so we know each other well. “I am little bit excited of the match because it’s going to be my first Davis Cup match, which I know I am going to play first day, first match, that’s why I am pretty excited,” said Celikbilek. It’s the same scenario with Garanganga and Ilkel as they have played each other before. Garanganga said it’s going to be more about the best player on the day. “He is an aggressive obviously, good server, tries to use his forehand quite a bit, similar game style to me so it’s really more of the person who is going to be able to neutralise situations when someone has put you under pressure and then look for opportunities in terms of that. “But (we are) both great players so we look forward to what happens on the court obviously I have played him twice before, I have had victory over that so it’s a good thing,” said Garanganga. His opponent said he is looking forward to a good match. “I played against Takanyi two times before and he beat me, so I know he is a really good player and he can play some really good tennis. He used to be that top level in the Challenger level, so I know him a lot. I am sure it will be a good match,” Ilkel said. Yesterday’s draw was graced by Minister of Sport, Arts and Recreation Kazembe Kazembe and he wished both teams the best during the tie. Programme Today: Official opening ceremony 10am. Immediately followed by Singles Matches Benjamin Lock v Altug Celikbilek Takanyi Garanganga v Cem Ilkel Tomorrow: Doubles Takanyi Garanganga/Benjamin Lock v Sarp Agabigun/Tuna Altuna Reverse Singles Benjamin Lock v Cem Ilkel Takanyi Garanganga v Altug Celikbilek