Tamuka Muchapondwa Albert Marufu in LONDON, England FORMER British, European and Commonwealth heavyweight boxing champion, Derrick Chisora has tipped fellow Zimbabwean Tamuka Muchapondwa to win the English welterweight title final eliminator against Irishman John O’Donell. The rescheduled February 16, 12 round bout, which is being promoted by former WBA heavyweight and undisputed cruiserweight champion David Haye through his Hayemaker Boxing Promotions, is set for The O2 Arena in London on February 16. Chisora (27-8 19KOs), said this is a fight in which Muchapondwa  (16-1, 4KOs) should aim for a technical knockout. “He is a brilliant boxer who also has a good height for his division. He just has to believe in himself. His aim should be a technical knockout because anything else will put him at a disadvantage. If he continues to train hard, I do not see him loosing the bout,” said the Mbare born pugilist who beat Danny Williams to lift the British heavyweight title on May 15, 2010. Chisora, who has traded leather against renowned pugilists such as Tyson Fury, David Haye and Vitali Klitschko, among a host of others in the heavyweight division, added that the monetary incentive that comes with winning the fight should also motivate  24-year-old Muchapondwa. “Money should be his other motivator. If he wins that fight, he stands to get more money. All Tamuka has to do is train hard.  There is a difference between getting a thorough beating and losing a boxing bout. You have to lose with dignity. I like him for being a hardworking boxer and will certainly attend the fight. We should support each other as Zimbabweans,” said Chisora who confessed that he has little knowledge of O’Donnell, Muchapondwa’s opponent. With an impressive record of (32-2 2KOs), the 32-year-old O’Donnell appears more the favourite ahead of the bout. Another plus on his side is that he has not lost a fight in the last five years. However, Muchapondwa said he is ready for O’Donnell, who has caused the postponement of the bout on three occasions. “I have done my homework and certainly see victory in the horizon. I have said it before, 2018 is my year. I am very grateful of the support I am receiving from my sponsors as well as Chisora. He has been full of encouraging words,” he said. He will also have to avoid suffering back-to-back defeats after falling to Serge Ambomo in his last fight.