Minister Sithembiso Nyoni Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent THE Minister of Women and Youth Affairs Cde Sithembiso Nyoni has urged people to guard against being used by unscrupulous individuals to incite hatred against the military following false claims that the army was brutalising people in her constituency. Cde Nyoni, who is also the MP for Nkayi North said this following false social media messages suggesting that soldiers were last week deployed to brutalise villagers in Gwelutshena area. The false claims reported by online publication Bulawayo 24 news caused panic among members of the public. Cde Nyoni said the message was circulated by malcontents bent on spreading alarm in society. She said there were no signs of intimidation among villagers and locals are going about their business. “Those are utter lies. I go to Gwelutshena every week. There is nothing like that. It’s just someone who created a WhatsApp chat and circulated it. I was there over the weekend where I held a rally which was attended by over 5 000 people. AmaNdebele kade angasoze aphume (Ndebeles were not going to attend the rally) if there were things like that happening,” said Cde Nyoni. She challenged members of the public to desist from forwarding social media messages without first confirming facts behind the matters. Cde Nyoni said through telling the truth, members of the public can shame those who are trying to create a divisive agenda. “I want to urge members of the public to be brave; we’re being used by others who want to prove their points while fanning whatever they want to fan. I want to urge them that let us be factual, let us be truthful and seek facts so that we can shame liars,” said Cde Nyoni. Her comments come as the Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) quashed claims that it deployed its members to Nkayi to abuse villagers. ZNA Director Army Public Relations Lieutenant Colonel Alphios Makotore said: “The ZNA would like to state that no members of the army are deployed in the Nkayi area or any of its surroundings. None of its members are therefore involved in the aforementioned activities.” Lt Col Makotore said the ZNA does not engage in Zanu-PF politics. @nqotshili