 Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE Bulawayo Publicity Association is facing closure after losing $15 000 to a bookkeeper who forged signatures and withdrew the money. According to the latest city council minutes, the association wrote to the city’s Town Clerk Mr Christopher Dube seeking a $15 000 loan. The association said if it fails to get the money, it will be forced to close. Late last year, police said the bookkeeper Jackie Kennedy from Paddonhurst suburb was on the run but yesterday it could not be immediately established if she had been apprehended. “I explained that our bookkeeper forged my signature and withdrew all the association’s money and mine from the bank before this was found out in November last year. She had not paid various service accounts although she claimed to have done so”, said an official from the association. She said the association’s auditors, Ernest and Young had charged $15 000 for doing the association’s books hence the association was asking for $15 000 loan from council. “Failing this, we would have to close. The association’s reputation for helpfulness and good information is well known, appearing as it does in several international tourist guide books and in articles written by journalists and nationally it is known as the best publicity association in the country. “It would leave quite a vacuum in the city if it closes. We look to you for your kind consideration and help,” said the official. Heads of departments and councillors acknowledged the importance of the association in the city but highlighted that the city council also has pressing issues that needed attention. The Financial Services Director, Mr Kempton Ndimande said although council was facing challenges, given the role of Bulawayo Publicity Association in marketing the city to potential investors and visitors, the organisation deserves assistance. “In principle my department is agreeable to the request. This could be in the form of a once off increased grant-in-aid for 2018. However, Bulawayo Publicity Association should avail their financial statements,” said Mr Ndimande. The Director of Housing and Community Services Mr Dictor Khumalo said it was important for the association to give the city council full details on how it intends to recover the stolen money. “The applicant does not tell us what measures have been taken to recover the monies stolen by the employee and the progress of investigations. While the situation appears desperate, due diligence should be taken to ensure good corporate governance. “The positive works of the Bulawayo Publicity Association are very good for the development of the city. The organisation needs renewal both in scope and human capacity for it to remain relevant and be in a crest position to adapt to the new socio political dispensation in the country,” said Mr Khumalo. The director of Health Services Dr Edwin Sibanda expressed concern that the association lost its money to a staff member, which indicated weak controls.  — @pamelashumba