Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter IN a bid to expand its empire, one of the leading fitness centres in Bulawayo, Body Works Gym, has opened a new training facility in Belmont. Body Works Gym opened its first gym at the Parkade Centre in the central business district in 2014 and has been on a rise since then. The new fitness facility is located at the former Core Fitness at corner Plumtree Road and Colchester Road in Belmont. The new facility opened for business on Monday. Nathan Greenland, the United Kingdom-based managing director of Body Works Gym who has been in the country since the end of 2017 looking for space to grow his business, said: “The place is doing well in its early stages. It’s exciting to have this new base, here we have new clientele and the place is really pleasant. We have put in a new studio for aerobics classes and we have placed state- of- the- art equipment. “Hopefully we will have lots of people coming in to work on their fitness and maintaining healthy bodies. We believe the opening of this gym is just the start as we plan to open more branches and make this gym national. It has always been our desire to spread our wings and our next target is Gweru then Kwekwe and Kadoma. Hopefully some day we will open in the capital.” Body Works Gym has in its ranks experienced trainers that include Simon Gama, Sinini Nxumalo, Harold “Rock” Nhanchi, Durrell Hamilton and Itai Kapini. Four other professional trainers have been added to the team as the business expands. Body Works Gym also made a name for itself, with a number of athletes that train at its facility winning national and provincial bodybuilding titles. These include Shantel Greenland, Lovemore Munyamana, Pardon Dube, Selina Manuel and Paul Goredema. Shantel Greenland, Munyamana, Goredema and Manuel have also represented the country at the biggest multi-sport show on the African continent, the Arnold Classic Africa, which takes place every May at the Sandton Convention Centre in Johannesburg, South Africa. Premier Soccer League sides, including Bulawayo giants Highlanders have made the new Body Works facility their fitness training base. @innocentskizoe