 Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A GWANDA woman has been granted a protection order against her possessive ex-boyfriend who is harassing and barring her from seeing another man. Ms Prisca Ngwenya of Spitzkop suburb told a court that she broke up with Walter Ncube last year but he was in the habit of visiting her house unannounced and threatening to kill her and then commit suicide. Ms Ngwenya said her ex-boyfriend also took some of her belongings by force. “I fell in love with Ncube in March last year and in August we broke up. The decision for us to separate was mutual but to my surprise he is harassing me and forcing me to break up with my boyfriend and to get back with him. He is threatening to continue with this harassment until I break up with my new boyfriend. “He has come to my house several times with a chain and acid threatening to beat me to death and hang himself. He also took my two cellphones and a jacket by force and he is refusing to return my belongings,” she said. Ms Ngwenya said Ncube was also in the habit of visiting her workplace to harass and intimidate her. She said after taking her cellphones, Ncube would answer her calls and insult callers until she blocked the lines. Ms Ngwenya begged the court to warn her ex-boyfriend against harassing her and to order him to return her belongings. In response, Ncube said he was not opposed to the protection order being granted. He said he was bitter over his break up with Ms Ngwenya as she cheated on him with another man. He also denied taking his girlfriend’s possessions by force, saying she gave them to him willingly. “Ms Ngwenya is the one who broke up with me after she had met another man who is now her boyfriend. I loved her with all my heart but she disappointed me. “I didn’t take her cellphones by force but she lent me after I asked her to. I haven’t returned them as they were stolen from me. I’m not working at the moment but once I get a job, I will replace her belongings,” said Ncube. Presiding over the matter, Gwanda magistrate, Mr Obedience Matare granted Ms Ngwenya’s protection order. He ordered Ncube to desist from insulting, assaulting, threatening or harassing Ms Ngwenya. Mr Matare also barred Ncube from visiting Ms Ngwenya’s house and ordered him to return his ex-girlfriend’s belongings. @DubeMatutu