President Mnangagwa (right) listens to the South African Minister of Transport Mr Joe Maswanganyi during a ceremony to receive locomotives and wagons from the Diaspora Infrastructural Development Group (DIDG) and Transnet of South Africa at the Bulawayo Main Railway station yesterday. — Picture By Dennis Mudzamiri Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter SOUTH Africa is committed to working with Zimbabwe in strengthening bilateral economic ties to ensure development of both countries, South Africa’s Minister of Transport, Joe Maswanganyi said yesterday. Speaking in Bulawayo during the occasion to receive railway equipment under the National Railways of Zimbabwe’s $400 million recapitalisation programme, Minister Maswanganyi said it was imperative for the two countries to work together and utilise every opportunity that contributes towards increasing industrialisation in both countries. “As the South African Government, we’re committed through the bi-national commission between the two countries to work with Zimbabwe closely in building the economies of the two countries,” he said. “The two countries have always had a good relationship. The NRZ-DIDG/Transnet partnership will go a long way towards harmonised and safe movement of freight and passengers in the region.” Minister Maswanganyi said the two countries were working towards a concept of a one stop border post to allow easy movement of transport and people at the Beitbridge Border Post. “We believe that together we will achieve the concept of a one stop border post. I’m also working with my counterpart in Zimbabwe, Minister Gumbo, to add more frequencies when it comes to aviation between South African Airways and Air Zimbabwe between Johannesburg and Harare and other towns in the two countries. There are also other programmes that we’re working on together as the two departments of transport,” he said. “As the two neighbouring countries, we’ll work together to realise this objective of the single transport market on the continent.” The South African minister said transport was the heartbeat of economic growth and social development in any country hence the importance of partnerships between the two countries. “In South Africa, we’ve also started working on our fleet renewal programme. Coupled with this development is a train manufacturing and maintenance factory, where 580 passenger coaches will be manufactured,” he said. “Efficient logistics are also fundamental to unlocking opportunities in the agricultural sector and positively contribute to economic growth, job creation and skills development. “Transnet is therefore critical to fulfilling all these strategies and linking South Africa with the rest of Africa through Zimbabwe. This will allow Transnet to partner on a range of opportunities on the continent and beyond.” @pamelashumba1