Trust Gomezani Mkandawire Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Zambian youth international striker Trust Gomezani Mkandawire is close to signing for How Mine FC after impressing coach Bekithemba Ndlovu during his trial stint. The striker, who turns 24 years old later this year, is part of the new crop of players Ndlovu is recruiting for the miners, as he tries to balance his squad with youth and experience. Ndlovu said the striker, who once played for African Stars in Namibia following a stint with Power Dynamos in his home country, has “instincts of a striker” and seems hungry for goals. “The Zambian striker has been training with us for a while and if all goes well, we’ll have him in our squad. I think he is someone who can give us another dimension when attacking because he possesses those instincts of a striker, he shoots in the box, hits the target and keeps the ball well,” said Ndlovu. The national Under-20 coach said Mkandawire arrived for trials with two Zambian defenders, who have since left How Mine’s pre-season training base. Mkandawire will compete for a starting place with experienced forward Kuda Musharu and 19-year-old Nqobile Ndlovu as well as utility player Milton Ncube. Mkandawire once tried his luck at Chicken Inn in 2016 before coach Joey Antipas left for South African side AmaZulu. Ndlovu also revealed that they are close to signing the Aces Youth Academy trio of 20-year-old midfielder Nicholas Guyo and defenders Collin Mujuru (20) and Manuel Jalayi (19). How Mine have also added Shadreck Nyahwa (18) and Lucky Ndlela (21), who were at Bantu Rovers last season. National Under-20 goalkeeper Issa Ali has been brought on board to give competition to newly signed Liberty Chirava and 23-year-old Future Sibanda. “If you look at our signings, we made sure that we bring in mostly youngsters so that we balance the squad with seasoned players. The combination of youth and experience is meant to ensure balance and smooth transition. We can’t do away with all experienced players because we need them for leadership purposes on the field of play,” Ndlovu said. How Mine retained some experienced players for key positions such as skipper and Zambian expatriate Makundika Sakala, who can either play in central defence as well as in midfield, left-back Brian Mbiriri, Ncube, midfielder Peter “Rio” Moyo and Musharu. @ZililoR