Cde Abednico Ncube Thupeyo Muleya, Beitbridge Bureau THE Minister of State for Provincial Affairs in Matabeleland South, Cde Abednico Ncube, has said Zimbabweans must have a shared national vision as economic growth is only possible through collective efforts. The minister said this while addressing mourners at the burial of liberation war hero, Cde Chillis Mbedzi, at Malala Village in Beitbridge on Saturday. The liberation hero, who was 61, died on January 28 in the border town following a short illness. The Minister said a shared vision among Zimbabweans was critical for national economic development. “It is very important that we unite as government, businesses and community leaders, that we work together to accelerate development in our respective areas. We can do more as a unit,” said Cde Ncube. “Today we are gathered here to pay tribute to Cde Chillis Mbedzi. We celebrate his desire to serve his people and his readiness to face death for the liberation of our country. It is very critical that we work very hard to preserve the legacy of the likes of Cde Mbedzi and many brave heroes and heroines who fought against an oppressive colonial system.” He said it was important for people to be principled and focused on reviving the country’s economy to consolidate the gains of the hard won independence. The Minister said economic growth of any area requires a collective effort among all the players. “We should be proud of our country and never at any point sell our independence for anything. Let there be no Judas Iscariots among us who for 30 pieces of silver sold out the Son of Man,” said Cde Ncube. The Minister said the nation had lost a principled man in Cde Mbedzi. He said the late hero served the country whole heartedly before and after independence. Senator for Beitbridge Cde Tambudzani Mohadi said the ruling party had lost a fountain of wisdom. “He will be greatly missed. This was a man who embraced everyone with respect,” she said. The burial was attended by scores of people from across the country including senior civil servants, businessmen and politicians. Cde Mbedzi is survived by his wife Ottilia and one child.