Hwange Colliery Company Limited (HCCL) Leonard Ncube in Lupane THE Zimbabwe National War Veterans Association (ZNLWVA) has engaged the Zanu-PF Politburo to intervene in the ongoing impasse between Hwange Colliery Company and its workers over unpaid salaries and benefits. HCCL has been locked in a long standing labour dispute with its workers, which has seen spouses protesting. The wives of HCCL employees have been demanding that the coal mining company fulfils its pledge to pay them outstanding salaries after agreeing to a scheme of arrangement last year. Speaking here on Sunday, ZNLWVA Matabeleland North provincial chair, Sonny Mguni, said the Politburo has been briefed about the issue. “We have raised the issue in Harare and today we want it told to our Secretary (Victor Matemadanda) because we want it known to the Politburo,” he said before inviting a Zanu-PF member from Hwange Reeds Dube to brief the gathering about the goings on at the company. Dube implored Government to speedily address the impasse saying Zanu-PF stands to suffer if nothing is done before elections. “The Hwange issue is the reason why we are losing elections in Hwange every year. Something needs to be done before elections. Hwange Colliery workers have not been paid for many years since 2013 to be specific. The situation became serious last year and women ended up demonstrating.” Dube said the protestors who include pensioners and retrenchees are demanding payment of outstanding salaries and terminal benefits. Each worker is owed more than $5 000, which translates to $10 million, the meeting was told. “We wonder where the company will get all this money from,” added Dube. The protestors halted their plans to take the demonstration to Victoria Falls where they intended to catch the attention of the international world after management took them to court and are awaiting the outcome of today’s hearing in Harare. Since the demonstration started, the company has paid the workers 5.2 percent of the outstanding salaries in two batches of 2.6 percent each. The protestors have refused to end the demonstration saying the money was insignificant. The women are still camped at the entrance to the company’s management office where a tent has since been pitched. They are sleeping at the premises as part of their demonstration. HCCL recently filed an urgent chamber application at the Bulawayo High Court seeking a court order directing Police Commissioner-General Godwin Matanga to deploy anti-riot police to eject the protestors from its premises. However, Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Nicholas Mathonsi struck off the case from the court roll as it was discovered that HCCL had also filed an ordinary application concerning the same matter at the Harare High Court where the matter is expected to be heard today. @ncubeleon