 Justice Simango Business is indeed a game, and like any game, there are rules to winning. Competition in the business arena is fierce and companies are looking for executives who can handle themselves at a trade show as well as in the boardroom. Opportunities are growing fast for most companies to do business globally, especially now during the new political dispensation, but do you have what it takes to compete in the global market? Relationships are everything, especially if you want to cultivate business with customers and clients outside your target market. We now live in a global village where it is imperative to have an awareness of cultural differences. Differences in business cultures can become stumbling blocks to developing a strong relationship, which is after all the ultimate goal of networking etiquette. A little effort at gaining some cultural literacy can help you deal successfully with people around the world. When we engage ourselves with our clients and colleagues, we have to be sensitive to the issues we discuss about. It is wise to discuss issues that bring you together, things that are similar to you all. Creating business relationships that will have a positive impact on your bottom line has always been a difficult task for many executives. From the manner in which you give out your business card, to as complex as how close you stand facing one another. Never allow yourself to miss great life lessons, being an executive in your organisation should not tempt you to think that you have arrived. The world is bigger than your position and your position could potentially cause embarrassment to yourself, your clients or colleagues. Networking in today’s market takes finesse and knowledge of the culture in which you are networking. Just like on the highway, there are rules of the road, when attending a public gathering, a networking event, a product launch or any corporate event, there are also rules to be followed. Kudos to President Mnangagwa and his delegation that went to Davos, Switzerland; their homework was exceptionally done. The delegation successfully observed protocol and cross cultural differences each time they engaged in business talks with global executives. The outcome from the networking initiatives  are an obvious guess. This is what happens when you know how to handle yourself in a professional manner. Business Card etiquette: Networking is not personal, it is professional and exchanging business cards is an essential part of most business cultures. In many countries, when executives conclude a ruitful conversation, the business card ceremony begins. The card is presented to the other person with the front side facing upwards towards the recipient. Offering the card with both hands holding the top corners of the card symbolises respect to the other person. The business card is an extension of oneself and it should be treated with respect. Things like tucking it into a pocket, writing on it, bending or folding it in any way may insult or offend your future investor. During the last decade, word of mouth marketing has been connecting modern networkers significantly. Although some look down upon this strategy opting for the “misused social media”, those who use their communication skills effectively have mastered the rules of the game. Personal Space: When networking and meeting others for the first time, it is crucial to understand the unspoken dynamics of personal space. Sometimes it’s not your intention to make your fellow networker uncomfortable but it is the effect that goes a long way. Some cultural dynamics are fine with close personal interaction while others demand a bigger bubble. Holding close your ignorance because of your circumstances will not help you demarcate the two interests. Use of slang: Executives do not have a diplomatic option to speak in slang. In what ever situation you find yourself in, be a square dealer. Business is a perception and speaking in slang during a networking event will jeopardise your brand. As you do your homework, one great resource for information on customs and business etiquette is www.ExecutivePlanet.com <http://www.ExecutivePlanet.com> This link will help you desist from making inappropriate gestures, remark or other offensive behaviour. You might scratch your head and think about where your organisation started, that’s fine but I am more concerned about where you are heading. Progress can sometimes skip a generation; don’t allow your generation to be skipped. -Justice Simango is a Business Etiquette and Grooming Consultant who writes in his own capacity. He is a member of Toastmasters International. Feedback: justicesimango4@gmail.com Whatsapp: +263717566382