George Deda Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter LOCAL football agent George Deda has brokered deals that will see two more Zambian teams, Buildcon FC and Power Dynamos, visiting Zimbabwe for pre-season camp this week. Deda, who also facilitated the tours of two other Zambian sides Zanaco and Nkana FC, as well as Mozambican side Ferroviaro De Beira, said mega-rich Buildcon, home to the Zimbabwean trio of goalkeeper Tatenda Mukuruva, defender Partson Jaure and midfielder Nqobizitha Masuku, will arrive in the country on Wednesday. The agent, who secured the trio’s move to Zambia, said Buildcon will set up bases in Harare and Bulawayo where they will also play friendly matches against local teams. Deda said Power Dynamos, who recently engaged former Highlanders’ and How Mine coach Kelvin Kaindu as their head coach, will be in Zimbabwe in mid-February. He believes the foreign teams’ visits will give local sides good preparation for the 2018 season and also help create relations among the clubs. “I learnt the concept of organising training camps for teams from foreign clubs in Europe that I also have links with. They always camp outside their countries so that the players will bond without interruptions. Zimbabwean teams have not been spared by the economic decline; hence they cannot afford to go outside the country to play our neighbours,” said Deda. “As it is, most regional clubs are well resourced, so I mooted the idea whereby they set up camp in Zimbabwe and local clubs can take advantage of their presence. Last year I brought Ferroviaro here and they played Ngezi Platinum Stars and Caps United. I took Dynamos to Mozambique in Tete where they played Desportivo De Chingale on an all-expenses-paid trip. In 2016 I organised pre-season matches for Caps United against Zanaco and Ferroviaro de Beira and they went on to win the league. It’s my hope that through these interactions, local clubs will create lasting relations with the foreign teams,” said Deda. He said cash-rich Tanzanian side Azam, which is home to former Highlanders’ utility player Bruce Kangwa, is keen to set up pre-season camp in Zimbabwe later this year. The Tanzanian league ends in May. “The Tanzanian and Zambian leagues are well funded and having these clubs coming will also give the visitors an opportunity to scout for talent,” Deda said. Last Saturday FC Platinum beat Ferroviaro De Beira 1-0 at Mandava Stadium and on Tuesday Zanaco clobbered FC Platinum 4-0 in Zvishavane; giving the platinum miners the right test they need as they prepare for the Caf Champions League. Zanaco played a friendly against Chicken Inn and fell 1-2 to the former Zimbabwean champions on Friday at Luveve Stadium, while Nkana held FC Platinum to a goalless draw at Mandava Stadium on Saturday. Nkana wrap up their Zimbabwean tour with a closed door training game against Chicken Inn at Hartsfield Ground tomorrow morning. @ZililoR