 IT seems the Kalawa Jazmee Records empire is slowly crumbling if word doing the rounds in the streets of Jozi is true. According to sources, Candy Tsa MaNdebele and Busiswa Gqulu are the latest big artistes from the stable to jump ship. Candy (real name Candy Mokwena Ga Modjadji) is said to be calling it quits to start her own record label. Rumours, on the other hand, suggest that Busiswa (also known as the Kalawa Chikita) is leaving for the same reason. An insider claimed: “It’s something that’s been eating away at them for the past three years. As much as they had privileges to continue working under Kalawa, it was becoming clear that everyone was focusing more on their projects. “It was either you make an effort to come up with something or else an album wasn’t going to come through. The situation was depressing for both of them.” Another source claimed matters got worse when Professor, DJ Maphorisa, Character, Heavy K and DJ Bucks left Kalawa to focus on their projects. Insisted the informant: “Remember, those four guys played a huge role in producing music for Kalawa’s artistes. They’re very talented, so when they leave to focus on their solo projects, that leaves you in the dark as a singer. “Candy and Busiswa’s concerns and vision to start their own thing is understandable. What I like about them is that they still communicate with the guys who have left and are always willing to assist and work with them in future like they did last year.” When called for comment, Candy said: “That’s news to me. For now, I don’t want to discuss my Kalawa contract with the media. People must understand I’m not ready to leave Kalawa.” Busiswa said: “I have a few months left in my contract. But I’m still unsure if I’m staying or leaving.” Nokwazi said: “I’m still with Kalawa and working on an album.” Oskido said: “Kalawa is the university of the music industry. If artistes graduate, it’s good for them to grow their brands elsewhere. Busiswa’s contract expires in June and we’re happy for her to start her own thing as we’ve empowered her like other artistes we have given a platform,” he said.  — DailySun