 Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau ZIMBABWE Davis Cup tennis team captain Gwinyai Tongoona is content with the way his team is shaping up as they brace for their tie against Turkey at Harare Sports Club this weekend. The two countries meet on Saturday and Sunday in the Europe/Africa Group II first round tie to be played under the new two-day format and best-of-three-sets matches. Tongoona said although the new format may appear a bit demanding, the fact that it’s now the best of three sets matches makes it manageable and he is happy with his players’ fitness. The first two singles rubbers will be played on Saturday, which is Day One, and Sunday it’s the doubles and two reverse singles. “Obviously on Saturday it’s a little bit less demanding because the first day used to be best of five sets but now it’s best of three so, those matches have been shortened. The Sunday basically becomes like best of five because it’s a doubles and then the singles, best of three sets. “So the Sunday becomes more like the previous Friday. But the main thing is if somebody is playing doubles and have to play singles you only have a 30-minute break that’s the main thing that we have to think about only. “But in terms of fitness, I think the guys are okay because they were pretty much ready to play best of five sets. So they have shortened it and they feed everything in two days, so I think it’s manageable even if someone was to play singles and doubles I think it’s still manageable,” said Tongoona. The Zimbabwe team consisting of Benjamin Lock, Takanyi Garanganga, Mark Chigaazira and Mehluli Sibanda were yesterday focusing more on the doubles, looking at different possible formations and just sharpening their skills. Previously for the doubles it has been Benjamin and his young brother Courtney, who could not make it this time around due to college commitments. But the Zimbabweans are not worried about that as this is also an opportunity for Chigaazira and Sibanda, who are also coming up in tennis, to step up and prove themselves. Chigaazira has already expressed his eagerness to impress after making it into the team for the first time while Sibanda, who just graduated from the juniors has been part of the team on a Tennis Zimbabwe development programme. The 18-year-old concluded his stint year in the juniors on a high note last year when he won two singles titles during the International Tennis Federation 18-and-Under South Central Circuit in Harare. The performance saw him reaching his career high-ranking on the ITF Junior World Rankings when he went 58 places up from number 194 to 136 last August. It is something he can build on going into the weekend’s tie. Tongoona said his side is also looking good and is happy with the work they are putting in for the tie. The visitors had their second day of practice sessions at the match venue yesterday led by captain Haluk Akkoyun and included Cem Ilkel, Altug Celikbilek, Anil Yuksel, Sarp Agabigun and Tuna Altuna in their drills. Yeksel comes in for Marsel Ilhan, who was withdrawn from the initial team list due to an injury. Akkoyun said they have an idea of what to expect having seen Garanganga and Lock playing in Turkey on several occasions. “We know the two players from Zimbabwe, Garanganga and Lock, they came to Turkey many times, they play our players and they know each other. “My opinion is our chances are 50-50, who plays better on the day wins the matches because everything is important, the weather and the atmosphere. Maybe on the day they will be luck, maybe we will be luck,” said Akkoyun.