Mthabisi Moyo Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter JEYS Marabini’s former lead guitarist has released an afro-gospel album which is making waves in churches in South Africa. Mthabisi Moyo, originally from Umguza district, is regarded as one of Bulawayo’s finest lead guitarists having helped quite a number of artists in that regard. He has played the lead for Hwabaraty, Sandra Ndebele-Sibindi, Khuxman, Ndumi Nyongolo, Zinja Ziyamluma, Bekezela, Vusa Mkhaya and man of the moment Madlela S’khobokhobo. In a recent interview after playing the lead guitar for Vusa Mkhaya and Noma Nkwali at Bulawayo Theatre, South Africa based Moyo, better known as ‘Doctor Guitar’ said his music is well sought after in South Africa. The 10-track album, Ngiyabonga, is a fusion of traditional beat with a maskandi and jazz taste. “My first album is Ngiyabonga which I released in 2016 in South Africa. It’s a fusion of African traditional music and jazz. It was only last year that people in South Africa got to appreciate it and it’s making waves. “The album did very well and I’m glad people like it. I’ve done a number of shows in Johannesburg and I’m even getting a lot of invites from churches who want me to introduce afro-gospel music since many of them are used to western style,” he said. The tracks include Ngizocatsha, Amagama Abangcwele, Ngiyabonga, Uphakeme, Ngiyakwethemba, Ungithethelele, Akhona Amandla, Sizohlabelela, Favour and Ngiyakhuleka. “My favourite is Ngiyabonga as I felt I should be thankful to God for everything that He has done in my life,” said Moyo. He said he is working on a second album which he plans to release on his 28th birthday on September 21 at Prevailing Word Ministries International at North Riding, South Africa. Moyo said the second album will feature a number of gospel artists. From jazz music to gospel, Moyo said it is his versatility that made him realise that he had talent in gospel music and that makes him a hot bun for other artists. Moyo said: “This is because of the skills that God has blessed me with. I am popularly known as a lead guitarist and one of the best in Bulawayo. I started playing guitar in 2010 with Jeys Marabini and he groomed me to become what I am today.” “I was inspired by his passion and willingness to help upcoming artists which is why I’ve also worked with a number of Bulawayo stars. My vision is to see Bulawayo musicians working together and producing good quality music.” He said other artistes knew him when he was still playing for Jeys and request for his services in their projects. @ncubeleon