Lieutenant-Colonel Thompson Mkwananzi Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe National Army has set a target of raising $500 000 for its five charities and is confident of reaching that goal, starting with this weekend’s epic final pitting rivals Highlanders and Dynamos at the National Sports Stadium. Speaking before the semi-final match between Bosso and Chicken Inn, acting chairperson of the Southern Region for the ZNA Charities organising committee, Lieutenant-Colonel Thompson Mkwananzi, said financial statements indicated that they were on the right path towards reaching the half a million dollar target. “Last week I attended the launch of the 2018 ZNA Charities Shield in Harare where the chairman of the charities indicated that we are progressing very well. We have a target of $500 000 which we hope to achieve as indications from the financial statements show that we are almost there,” Mkwananzi. Bosso reached their fourth consecutive final after brushing aside Chicken Inn’s challenge in a match that began on Sunday at Barbourfields and ended the following day at Luveve Stadium. The Sunday match was put on hold in the 55th minute mark due to poor lighting and a heavy downpour. The GameCocks were leading 1-0 through a Clemence Matawu goal struck in the fourth minute. The organisers then agreed to play the remaining 35 minutes at Luveve on Monday morning and Highlanders, now nicknamed ECD due to their promotion of Under-18 players to the first team, turned on the power and scored two goals through Adrian Silla and central defender Peter Muduhwa to leave their opponents stunned. The victory set up a dream final against old nemesis Dynamos, who beat Caps United 1-0 on Sunday. The two teams will be meeting for the second time in the tournament, having first met in 2015 when Highlanders lifted the trophy after a 1-0 win. The following season Highlanders retained the silverware with a 4-2 penalty shootout win over Harare City at Barbourfields Stadium before Caps United wrestled the shield last season at the same venue, winning 3-2 via penalties. @skhumoyo2000