Acting chairperson of the ZNA Charity Shield Southern Region Lieutenant Thompson Mkwananzi (second from left) addresses a press conference at the Mzilikazi Barracks yesterday. To his left is public relations officer 1 Infantry Brigade Lt Brian Muchero while Highlanders coach Madinda Ndlovu and his Chicken Inn counterpart Joey Antipas follow proceedings. (Picture by Nkosizile Ndlovu) Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE desire for rich pickings as well as the need to impress coaches before they finalise their squads for the 2018 Castle Lager Premiership season should inspire players involved in the ZNA Charity Shield to be at their best tomorrow. This year’s prize money has been increased, with the winner set to get $15 000, up from $12 000 while losing finalists will get $10 000 from last year’s figure of $8 000. Two potentially exciting ZNA Charity Shield semi-finals are on cards with derbies set for Harare and Bulawayo. Last year’s ZNA Charity Shield losing finalists Highlanders face Chicken Inn at Barbourfields Stadium while defending champions Caps United play hosts to  Dynamos at the giant National Sports Stadium. In the build up to the semis, the four sides’ coaches have been singing the same tune, that of improving their teams’ performances as they seek to conclude their pre-season training ahead of the PSL kickoff in three weeks’ time. However, that diplomacy by coaches to say they are going about perfecting their sides could count for little as players will want to fight for bragging rights. There is nothing friendly about derbies as bragging rights are at stake and in as much as the season is yet to kickoff, the players understand the importance of going all the way to the final. Besides impressing their coaches and repaying them for their faith, the fear of going out of the tournament empty handed as there is no prize money for losing semifinalists should inspire players to be at their best, setting the tone for explosive games. “There is no prize money for the losing semi-finalists. However, because we understand that players can’t play for free, all the players will get match appearance fees and this has been communicated to the teams. We’ve increased the prize money for the finalists with the winners getting $15 000 up from $12 000 while losing finalists will walk away with $10 000 compared to last year’s $8 000,” said the spokesperson for the organisers, Lieutenant-Colonel Fabion Chitungo. The tournament organisers are hoping to raise at least $50 000 from this year’s  football tournament which will be channelled towards the five ZNA charities. The ZNA charities are Tsanga Lodge Convalescent Centre in Nyanga for the rehabilitation of injured soldiers; the Benevolence Fund for the welfare of troops on internal, external and international operations, ZNA Schools Welfare Trust, which has a total of 12 primary and five secondary schools as well as the Widows and Orphans’ Fund that takes care of widows of soldiers before they receive terminal benefits. Gate charges for all the games have been set at $3 for the rest of the ground and $5 for the VIP wings. Meanwhile, Chicken Inn are facing Bosso for the second time in the tournament. Highlanders beat Chicken Inn 4-2 after penalty shootouts in the quarterfinals of the 2016 edition. The game had ended 1-1 draw in regulation time. Chicken Inn, who were clobbered 4-0 in their last league meeting with Highlanders in October last year,  are favourites to march past Bosso who are going through a rebuilding exercise. Some Bosso faithfuls have called their squad ECD. Chicken Inn are expected to parade their latest acquisitions in ex-Highlanders midfielder Simon Munawa, former How Mine defender Kudzai Chideu, Wellington Kamudyariwa formerly with Yadah FC and striker Adrian Banana who was on loan at Bulawayo Chiefs last season. On the other hand, Highlanders don’t have big name signings. The new boys at Bosso are ex-Tsholotsho FC and Ngezi Platinum Stars’ right back McClive Phiri, attacking midfielder Nigel Makombe who is a product of Aces Youth Academy, former national Under-20 holding midfielder Patrick Musaka, former Bantu Rovers central midfielder Munyaradzi Chitambwe and Thabo Lunga, a product of Highlanders’ development side. — @ZililoR