Amos Mahendere Harare Bureau Gospel musician Amos Mahendere has struck the right chord this time with his new peace and reconciliation initiative project titled “Our Heritage” that has been received well by clergyman. On the new album Mahendere worked with newly formed musical group called Zim Afro Family comprised of 11 talented upcoming artistes from Bulawayo, Harare and Chipinge in a bid to promote peace and unity in the country. In separate interviews, a number of church leaders said they have embraced the good gospel being spearheaded by Mahendere. Apostolic Grace and Mercy Ministries Pastor Tatenda Rungando said he endorses the message of the new album. “As the body of Christ we believe in the gospel of love, peace and unity. We welcome such messages and in this new dispensation. This gospel is not only confined to politicians but all of us. I listened to Mahendere’s album that is conveying that good message. “The theme in the album is clear and it is important for us as a nation to forgive each other, move forward in peace and unity for the betterment of our nation,” he said. Prophetic Ministry International founder Prophet Advocate Joshua said it has always been the duty of the church to disseminate the good gospel of peace. “There is nothing bad about gospel musicians singing about harmony in the land because it the duty of the church particularly musicians to sing about peace and unity. Even the bible supports that in Psalms 122:6-8 where it talks about people praying for peace and prosperity of their city Jerusalem,” he said. The six tracks on the album were composed in Shona, Ndebele and Ndau language to accommodate various listeners. “As Christians we believe in peace and unity and as such we want this message to reach everyone that is why we used different languages to make sure that the message is endorsed well and the response has been overwhelming so far,” said Mahendere. Amongst the songs is the rendition of “National Anthem” by Professor Solomon Mutsvairo sang in different language in a contemporary beat that is much more appealing to the younger generation.