Saul Chaminuka Noel Munzabwa in Manzini, Swaziland FORMER Warriors’ assistant coach Saul Chaminuka has quit Swaziland MTN Premier League outfit Matsapha United after a spate of clashes with a member of the team’s management committee and fans. Chaminuka held a no holds barred meeting with the team’s administrative board on Monday afternoon where they failed to convince him to rescind his decision to step down. Problems seem to have come to fore due to a leadership vacuum created by the arrest of team director Sipho Shongwe on January 19, sparking a vicious leadership contestation. Chaminuka said: “I have left the club for the good of the team. I will go and brief the director today (yesterday) after meeting the management committee and he will make a call on the future of the team. I have left and it’s healthy for the team because I couldn’t see myself working under the same roof with some of the members of the executive due to persistent interference. Maybe my assistant Mbaya (Katala) or the new coach will be able to. “Maybe my departure will be healthy for the team. The environment was no longer conducive. My departure must motivate the players instead of the reverse. He (Sipho) is not going to take it well I know, but Matsapha is not about Saul or any member of the executive, not even him (Sipho); it’s a team of people pulling in one direction for a common goal.” The club posted a statement on its website announcing the latest developments. “Matsapha United FC and coach Saul Chaminuka have reached an agreement to amicably part ways after almost two seasons. The decision was reached during a meeting between the coach and the club’s management committee held at the team villages on Monday afternoon. “As per contractual obligations, reasons for the decision remain confidential in respect to the employer-employee agreement and anything outside this will remain mere speculation (and) thus will be treated as such by both parties. “As William Shakespeare put it in Romeo and Juliet, parting is such a sweet sorrow. We meet to part and part to meet, fare thee well Saul Chaminuka,” reads the statement. Chaminuka joined Matsapha in September 2016 and was in charge of 50 competitive matches, guiding the team to the Premier League and the SwaziBank Cup final in 2017. He leaves the team fifth on the league table. The 3-2 wins over Tambuti FC and Tinyosi were his last respective league and cup assignments for the club. @NoelMunzabwa