Madlela Skhobokhobo Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent AFTER winning the Outstanding Actor gong at the Bulawayo Arts Awards last year Madlela Skhobokhobo (real name Bashimane Mothusi Ndlovu) failed to enrol for acting lessons at the College of Creative Arts Africa. Instead, he handed over the scholarship to another artiste. During the BAAs last year Ndlovu through his character Madlela scooped three awards, Outstanding Actor, Newcomer of the Year and Song of the Year. For being adjudged the outstanding actor he was awarded a scholarship of $3 000 to study acting at the College of Creative Arts. After receiving the prize money and scholarship, Ndlovu said he was not sure on how to go about utilising the opportunity as it could interfere with his music and acting gigs. And sure enough he failed to register in time to start doing the three-year course in September last year. “After I won the BAA as the outstanding actor I was supposed to take acting lessons. I was happy with that and at least in the arts I’ll have a qualification. However because of my busy schedule as I was booked for shows and the like, I failed to register,” revealed Ndlovu during the BAA launch on Saturday. He said he then informed the sponsors that he could not make it and they told him that he should choose someone to replace him. This was the time that he chose a young artiste called Ntandoyenkosi Mpofu who had just lost his mother. Ndlovu said after speaking to Mpofu he found out that he was heavily involved in the arts. “Ntando had just completed his A-Levels and when I met him I asked him what he wanted. He then said he was heavily involved in the arts. So I decided to take the young man to  start doing the course in place of me. “So for me the BAAs have not only benefited me as an artiste but someone who was in dire need of going to school to pursue their passion. The awards have helped change the life of a child,” said Ndlovu. Mpofu who is in his first year studying a four-year Bachelor in Arts Honours Degree in Film and Theatre Arts described the opportunity as a once in a life time. “It’s been a stimulating journey for the last months at school and I’m enjoying every part of it. The opportunity is a once in a lifetime one which I’ve grabbed with both hands,” said Mpofu. He said he will work hard until he graduates. Carol Dungeni, College of Creative Arts Africa marketing and information officer said Mpofu was doing well in his studies. “Ntando is doing well in his studies as he has passed all his subjects in his first semester, with distinctions in some.”