Prince Sunduzani, Business Reporter UMGUZA Rural District Council is leasing out its beer halls and bottle stores among other infrastructure to businesspeople after failing to run them profitably. In a statement, the local authority invited businesspeople to rent the premises that can be converted and used for any business venture the investor could be interested in. Reigate Beer Garden, Hlangabeza Bottle Store, Mbayiwa Beer Garden, Mathilikazi Beer Hall, shades and other building structures in Ntabazinduna and Fingo are the infrastructure Umguza RDC has released for renting. The move is expected to improve revenue collection by the RDC and ensure effective utilisation of idle resources in Umguza. “The premises may be converted and used for any activity. Tender forms shall be obtainable from the council offices on payment of a non-re fundable deposit of $80 for beer outlet, $10 for shades and other building structures,” reads part of the statement from the council. Umguza did not disclose the tenure of the lease agreements. Of late, the country has seen a lot of beer gardens being closed and some being converted into business entities or revenue halls. Bulawayo City Council, among other local authorities, has in the past adopted the same model of leasing some of its beer halls dotted across the city’s high density suburbs to private players. Some of the beer outlets BCC has leased out in the past include Nketa 8 Beer Garden, Hlanganani Bar Lounge in Tshabalala, MaHadebe (Emakhandeni), Matshobana, Nkulumane Beer Garden, Phekiwe (Nkulumane 12), Phumulani (Pumula North), MaNdlovu (Pumula East), Khongo (Mpopoma), Totobisa (Magwegwe West), Masilela (Gwabalanda), Sidudla (Njube) and Mondela Beer Garden in Tshabalala. The beer halls and bottle stores were leased after BCC observed that Ingwebu Breweries was making losses due to factors such as high utility bills. The local authority has also adopted a franchise model putting on franchise beer gardens such as Figa in Njube, Magwegwe, MaKalanga in Mabutweni, Manwele (Mzilikazi), Gibixhegu (Entumbane), Sizinda South, UMhambi in Njube, Insizwa (Old Magwegwe), MaMkhwananzi (Old Lobengula) and Iminyela Beer Garden. @PrinceNkosy102 