Manuel Mpofu Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter EXPANSION of the Old Mutual Nkulumane Fun Run to include the half marathon in addition to the 10km and 5km runs is a vote of confidence in the Bulawayo Athletics Board (Bab). Bab, the custodian of athletics in the province, has been administering the competition since its resuscitation in 2014. When Old Mutual decided to revive the race in 2014, the competition attracted just above 300 participants and the figure has been growing with each edition. It seems last year’s record turnout of 1 300 inspired the sponsors to add the 21.1km. “Bab is grateful to Old Mutual for their continued partnership with us over the years and their contribution towards the development of athletics. “Having seen how the race has steadily grown over the years, I’m happy to announce that this year’s race to be held on June 3 will include a half marathon. “It is our hope that one day the race will develop and expand into a full marathon event recognised by the IAAF,” said Manuel Mpofu, Bab chairman. Independent runner Canicious Nyamutsa won the men’s Old Mutual Nkulumane 10km Fun Run last year to take the $500 prize money. He beat a host of experienced runners, who included Kadoma-based Jacob Mugomeri of Zimpost, who came second and won himself $400, while Misheck Sithole was third. In the women’s category, Bertha Chikanga romped to victory, with Rudo Mhondero finishing second and Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services (ZPCS) runner Patience Garauzive beating defending champion Olivia Chitate of ZRP for third place. Mpofu said Old Mutual will reveal the sponsorship package on a later date. Last week, veteran runners Mike Fokorani and Samukeliso Moyo proved they were still top runners when they emerged winners of the Old Mutual Harare marathon. Old Mutual, who also support big races in South Africa such as the Two Oceans Marathon and the Comrades, also bankroll the Vumba half marathon, Chitungwiza 10km fun run and Westgate half marathon in Zimbabwe. @ZililoR