 Yoliswa Dube, Senior Features Reporter Ngamo Safaris was established by the Forestry Commission of Zimbabwe to generate revenue for conservation programs in the country’s indigenous forest areas through recreational hunting and photographic safaris. It offers one of the world’s finest hunting destinations and is fast becoming the African choice with world travellers. Hunting safaris are conducted by licensed, professional and experienced hunters within their 8 000 square kilometres of forest land. Situated in the North Western part of Zimbabwe, these natural forests support a diverse number of plant, animal and bird species. Resource conservation plays a special part in their safari activities. Decades of diligent scientific management of their wilderness has preserved vast forests for exciting scenic photographic safaris. This Valentine’s, Ngamo Safaris has on special offer for the entire Valentine’s week (February 11 to February 17) a package including accommodation, breakfast, lunch and dinner for $190 for two people per day. Ngamo Safaris marketing manager, Mr Enock Mandura said this was a wonderful opportunity to view wildlife and enjoy scenic drives. “We just want people to come closer to wildlife,” he said. One of their lodges offering this Valentine’s special, Ganda Lodge, is located within the beautiful teak woodlands of the Sikumi Forest bordering the Hwange National Park, Zimbabwe’s premier wildlife area. Ganda Lodge overlooks the Ganda pan, a natural waterhole, which attracts a wide variety of bird and animal species including elephant, buffalo, lion and a large variety of waterfowl. Built in 1992, the lodge has matured into the hospitality and catering sector to cater for a wide range of international, regional and local clients. The lodge has eight double storey chalets of stone under thatch. Each of the chalets has four three quarter beds, a fireplace, a bathroom, shower and overhead ceiling fans to cool the rooms. The interiors are decorated in distinctly African style including teak furnishings. Various activities can be enjoyed including night game drives around the estate. Walking safaris provide visitors with an opportunity to get close to nature and appreciate the sights and sounds of the African wild. A visit to the Painted Dog Project Centre would teach how these extinct animals survive in the wild. Also exciting to visit is Amandundumela Camp nestled in the heart of Gwayi Forest. The camp offers an opportunity to hunt on some of the best plains game available in Zimbabwe. Large herds of sable, eland, kudu, wildebeest and tsessebe abound. Intundla Camp, another of Ngamo Safaris’ establishments is conveniently tucked away in the Ngamo/Sikumi Forests that border the Hwange National Park. This is the biggest hunting camp and commands the largest hunting quota of elephant, sable, buffalo and leopard. The area consists of flat woodland blocks interspersed with grassy plains and is serviced by a permanent camp at Intundla. 