Minister Prisca Mupfumira Senior Business Reporter GOVERNMENT is considering adopting the Victoria Falls Tourism Special Economic Zone corridor approach, which is expected to have a significant impact in addressing the imbalance in product profiling within Matabeleland North. Speaking during a consultative workshop on the National Tourism Sector Strategy (NTSS) in Matabeleland North last week, Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister Prisca Mupfumira said this would ensure tourism development does not only concentrate on Victoria Falls but spreads to the entire province. “I am happy that the Government is considering the adoption of the Victoria Falls Tourism Special Economic Zone corridor approach. “This initiative will address the imbalance in product profiling within the province by mainstreaming areas such as Binga, Hwange and environs into the product portfolio. “This will go a long way in ensuring tourism development does not only concentrate on Victoria Falls,” she said. Minister Mupfumira emphasised that the designation of the region as a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) should not only concentrate on investment from outside the country while ignoring local people at the grassroots level. “As Government we need to put in place measures that support small tourism operators to invest into the SEZ,” she said. The minister said upon successful implementation, the SEZ would see the construction of a world class tourism and hospitality training institution that will capture the attention of the Sadc region. She said the Government has shown preparedness and commitment to the development of the Victoria Falls SEZ by placing the project under the ministry’s 100-day work programme. “Under this programme we envisage the development of a concept note and a Master Plan for the Victoria Falls SEZ. “These documents will help to inform the strategic direction in terms of investment in the SEZ while at the same time taking into consideration the environmental sustainable issues associated with Victoria Falls and environs,” said Minister Mupfumira. It is also hoped that the development of the SEZ will boost the carrying capacity of Victoria Falls in terms of accommodation. Presently, Victoria Falls has 1 781 rooms and hotels constitute 1 125 of the rooms while the remaining balance being lodges and other accommodation facilities. Minister Mupfumira challenged the accommodation sector to seriously consider the domestic tourism market and not only be glued on international tourism, as it presents an opportunity for economic growth and sustainability of the hospitality industry. She said efforts should also be on coming up with strategies that fully capture the domestic market while the tourism SEZ would give the country a rigid competitive advantage through the construction of world class hotels and Presidential villas, among others. It is also hoped that the $400 million capital injection into the National Railways of Zimbabwe, which has seen the parastatal leasing locomotives from South Africa, will become a game changer on passenger transportation. “Our hope is that the luxurious passenger locomotives will boost domestic tourism countrywide and especially to Victoria Falls, thereby presenting tourists with various options to access the destination,” said Minister Mupfumira.