 Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter THE Matabeleland Amateur Swimming Board (MASB) has announced a 61-member squad for the National Junior Swimming Championships to be held in Harare from March 10. The squad consists of 32 boys and 29 girls. Selected swimmers from the Under-8 to the Under-12 age groups were drawn from local clubs, Petra Swimming Academy, Zambezi Tigers, Barracudas, Falcon, Stingrays, Crusaders, School of Swimming, Dolphins and Penguins. Defending champions Mashonaland Province will be hoping to continue their dominance in the competition when they face Manicaland, Midlands, Mashonaland Country District (MCD), Masvingo and Matabeleland. MASB press liaison officer Thomas Werret said preparations for the competition were on course. “We have started preparing for the gala and swimmers are training with their respective clubs until combined training sessions are held at a later stage. “We have put together the best team and I have no doubt they will do well. “The team was selected according to performances in previous competitions. “Our juniors have been doing well this year and a number of Matabeleland records have been broken by these swimmers, so we hope to see some national records tumbling,” said Werret. Matabeleland will pin their hopes on Chloe Werrett, Tichatonga Makaya, Onesimus Ngwenya, Mbali Sibanda and Onye Onovo, who recently broke three provincial records. Meanwhile, Mashonaland retained the aggregate trophy of the National Swimming Championships held at the City Pool. Mashonaland dominated both the boys’ and girls’ swimming events to amass 2 957 points, while hosts Matabeleland were second with 2 074 points. Mashonaland Country Districts were a distant third with 190 points. Matabeleland Squad Chloe Werrett, Daniel Connolly, Kudzai Chapepa, Patrick Duff, Shumi Zvenyika, Abake Moyo, Kelsey De Swardt,Daniel Oxden-Willows, Adrianna Bhana, Joshah Siwela, Grace Hensman, Liam Chicksen, Mbali Sibanda, Sibusiso Fayayo, Ryah Mason, Nsikelelo Sibanda, Shayna Middleton, Kwandokuhle Nkomazana, Savanna Smith, Nicolas Roukounis, Jayden Weale, Courtney Banda, Tinotenda Chiwara, Kundai Alexio Chigariro, Onye Onovo, Onesimus Ngwenya, Chante Querl, Tichatonga Makaya, Avril Carinus, Ruan Nel Jade Chicksen, Jayden de Swardt, Desiree Soganile, Kayden Bhana, Zoe Gangira, Romeo Kahwema, Nozintaba Masiye-Moyo, Darren Ncube, Morgan Liddle, Vidal Bravo, Pamela Ncube, Mitchell Stanley Nadia Gorenykin, Emmanuel Sibanda, Olivia Accorsi, Cameron Rae, Caitlyn O’Donnell, Pearson Mumba, Makhosazana Nkomazana, Reece Rollo, Thapelo Nare, Yolanda Netsha, Tawanda Jani, Nomaqhua Ndlovu, Khaya Vimba, Mary Hensman, Tyler Varley, Kaelyn Manuel, Odinaka Onwuchukwa, Sibusiso Sibanda, Fanuel Zvenyika. @innocentskizoe