Phumulani Maphosa Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWEAN karatekas Tangayi Mighty Mhlanga and Phumulani Maphosa’s stars continue to shine as they scooped gold medals at the First So-Kyokushin International Karate Tournament held in Kathmandu, Nepal on Saturday. The duo travelled alongside Zimbabwe So-kyokushin Karate Do Organisation branch chief Samsom Muripo who is also the country’s reigning Sportsperson of the Year for the international tournament. Mhlanga won gold in the open weight category while Maphosa emerged victorious in the lightweight division. An elated Mhlanga said: “I am excited about this achievement. It feels great to walk in the same path as Shihan Samson Muripo. This has made me hungrier for success.” Mhlanga and Maphosa have had their fair share of success in the past representing the country in various regional and international events with the former winning gold at the Shorin Kempo Kaikan regional tournament in 2016. Mhlanga was in 2015 crowned champion at the first African World Fighting Kyokushinkai Organisation (WFKO) tournament in the middleweight division. He went on to represent Africa at the WFKO Grand-Prix Barcelona, Spain and came second. Maphosa was equally happy with his achievement and thanked the sponsors who funded their trip to Nepal. “The feeling l am experiencing right now can never be explained. It takes being on that same journey to know what it means. This was never going to be possible if we did not have the support of the sponsors who came on board. We are really grateful to them,” Maphosa said. Muripo, who was graded to Shihan last year and has over the years continued to do well on the international scene, said the weekend results are testimony that the sport is improving in Zimbabwe. “The results are not very surprising as Zimbabwe has great talent in karate. We have been unfortunate over the years not to have enough financial support to back our cause. I think we are set to witness a series of great achievements. “We are grateful to our sponsors NetOne, TelOne, Dr Manson Mnaba and other individuals l cannot mention by name who came on board to help us make the trip. It allowed the fighters to have more focus on what was needed to be done for their country on the fighting mat rather than worry about how they would get there. We are hope they will keep supporting us to participate in the international events lined up for this year. We are set to participate in Iran and Japan in the first quarter of the year. It is time to demand our respect as Zimbabweans on the global scale and karatekas know how to do it best,” Muripo said. The All-Japan Karate tournament, which attracts some of the world’s best karatekas is set for April 14-15 in Shizouka Prefecture, Japan. Grace Chirumanzu Zimbabwe Karate Union marketing and communications executive said: “I believe the experience we have had with this tournament has marked a dawn of a new era in Zimbabwe Karate. The coming on board of companies like NetOne, TelOne and committed individuals like Dr Manson Mnaba for this trip is testimony of what karatekas can do for their country with corporate support. There is no denying ZKU is one of the most successfully administered sport in our country after the awards we have won over the years. We continue to invite corporates to partner us in our events and help us  raise the Zimbabwean  flag high.”— @ZililoR