Kiyapili Sibanda, Showbiz Reporter PABLO’Z Club & VIP, a popular, exquisite nightspot in Harare that is patronised by the “big spenders” is spreading its wings as it will be opening another outlet in Gweru in April. Their productions manager Oceane said the club in the Midlands, the first outside Harare, would be situated at the New Megawatt complex with construction going on well. He said the club would be officially opened during the Easter weekend with a performance by a surprise international artist. Once opened, Midlands patrons, most who appreciate the finer things in life can expect perks that include fancy cocktails with exotic ingredients from world-renowned classics to a variety of top-shelf liquers, cigars and hubbly (shisha). With so much on offer, patrons will not run the risk of going thirsty – unless their pockets run dry. “Construction is still in its initial stages but everything is going according to plan. We’re hoping to open around Easter weekend with a big surprise international artist who’ll be supported by local talent from Gweru. “We’ve already acquired top of the range sound and smart lighting for the club and are now in the process of importing other ambient accessories,” Oceane said. Questioned why they had settled for Gweru, Oceane said the Midlands was a region close to their proprietor, Pablo’s heart as he lived in Shurugwi and Gweru for 10 years before relocating to Harare. As such, he decided to set up another nightclub there to bring quality entertainment in the Midlands. “We chose Gweru because for the past 10 years, Pablo lived in Shurugwi and Gweru where he was a miner. He knew there was a shortage of quality entertainment in Gweru and decided to  set up the club in Gweru,” said Oceane. In terms of employment, the Pablo’z management is hoping to employ no less than 35 people who include cleaners, hosts, waiters, bar staff, security, DJs, management and administrators. Oceane revealed plans to open another Pablo’s Club & VIP in Victoria Falls saying they had already secured a venue there with the property developer whom they are working with in Gweru. “We’re waiting to complete the Gweru project before we engage in the final preparations for our Victoria Falls branch,” he said. Patrons, Oceane said should expect the same quality and unrivalled service that is provided in Harare at the Sam Levy’s Village in Borrowdale. He said the Pablo’z exclusivity that has made the joint a go-to place for all individuals with expensive tastes will be maintained in Gweru. Just a few months after the Harare club opened in 2015 with a performance by Nigeria’s Burna Boy, the franchise expanded with the opening of a restaurant and deck. Situated on a semi-covered deck, guests enjoy cocktails, tapas and great music while mingling and enjoying the pleasures of what Zimbabwe’s entertainment scene has to offer. It remains Harare’s go to club because of its display of affluence with its sophisticated ambience. — @Kiyaz_Cool.