Prosper Tshuma Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent SINCE his vow to revive Ndebele contemporary sounds two years ago, jazz artiste Prosper Tshuma believes he is headed in the right direction as he feels appreciated and accepted by fans in Bulawayo. Tshuma, who was born in Filabusi 32 years ago, has been in the music industry for the last 15 years when he was in a dance group Isithende Sikazulu. After about four years he moved to Harare to seek the proverbial greener pastures and joined renowned jazz artiste Lwazi Tshabangu, performing with him in his band in Harare for nine years. Following those nine years with Tshabangu, two years ago Tshuma decided to be his own man and leave the nest to establish his own band. Tshuma or Golide, as he is affectionately known at City Club of Bulawayo, the venue he frequently performs at, said he felt it was time for him to grow as a musician and find his own way in the industry. “I felt that it was time for me to stand on my own as a man. Look, there comes a time in a musician’s life that you want to grow and I felt two years ago that it was time for me to leave Tshabangu, my long time mentor. He gave me his blessings,” said Tshuma. He said when he left Tshabangu and relocated to Bulawayo it was not easy to set up the band he now calls the Smart Birds. “Money is needed a lot of it to buy band equipment and at the same time get revenue from gigs and I was new at that time and this was difficult to all get. I had to sit down and devise a strategy to get booked for me to make money. I eat what I kill; meaning music is the only source of income for me. I struggled for a while to get regular gigs around the city. People don’t have the disposable income to have you permanently,” said Tshuma. Smart Birds comprises Blessing Sikhosana on the keyboard, Purpose Sikhosana on drums, Ashley Ndlovu and Lenon Taulo on bass guitar with Patience Taulo on lead and backing vocals. The diminutive Tshuma said what drove him to succeed was his wish to bring back the love for Ndebele contemporary music into the bars. And his perseverance paid off as word started doing the rounds with lovers of jazz music that he was doing well aided by his band The Smart Birds. He performed at places such as Cape to Cairo, Casino at ZITF, Holiday Inn, Cresta Churchill Arms and Nketa 8 Sports Bar. “I’m booked every Friday to Sunday the whole year. The busiest time is during holidays. After a year in the business when I was looking for gigs it’s no more like that, I’m called every weekend and the income is sustainable for the group although I’d like more,” he said. Tshuma’s performances are a blend of renditions of Lovemore Majaivana, Fanyana Dube and his own compositions such as Ngiqome which is doing well on Skyz Metro FM. “Now I have a song called Ngiqome that’s being given heavy rotation on Skyz Metro FM. This song was recorded last year and I’m happy with the way people are receiving it. Hopefully it’ll make it to the top of the charts at the station and also people start playing it in their cars and parties,” said Tshuma. Looking into 2018, Tshuma said he will work harder to be recognised more in Bulawayo and then Zimbabwe perhaps conquering Harare, the city he left some years ago.