NSSA building in Bulawayo Prince Sunduzani, Business Reporter THE National Social Security Authority (NSSA) says there is a need to review legislation related to workplace safety and increase leadership commitment to avert injuries and loss of life at work. Speaking on the side-lines of a recent engineers and safety practitioners meeting in Bulawayo, NSSA factory inspector, Mr Shingirai Marunza, said companies should adopt the “Vision Zero” initiative in workplace safety issues to enhance sustainable production. The “Vision Zero” initiative was developed in the country last year and spells out a number of measures to ensure zero accidents, which include leadership commitment, use of safety and healthy technology and identifying hazards and risks among other things. “The major challenge we are facing is that we are dealing with antiquated laws, legislation that is in pieces and we also have leadership commitment, which is not forthcoming. Hopefully with the engagements that we are having, we should be able to take everyone on board,” said Mr Marunza. “These challenges have resulted in accidents, which could have been avoided and we are working tirelessly to ensure that there are no injuries at the workplace. Through Vision Zero we are saying there should be zero accidents and injuries at the workplace.” He urged organisations to embrace the safety measures to avert loss of lives in the workplace, which he said was responsible for causing misery in affected families and robbing the country of crucial manpower. NSSA is on a drive to ensure workplace safety in the country’s industry and has, through a number of initiatives like campaigns, been conscientising companies on the importance of safety. The statutory body says it has experienced a steady decline in the number of work related accidents and deaths over the years. Records show that a total 5 491 people were injured while 98 people died in 2014 due to occupational accidents and diseases. The number declined to 5 380 injuries and 54 deaths in 2015 followed by another decline in 2016 to 5 364 injuries and an increase in deaths to 93. @PrinceNkosy102