Wilting crop in this file picture The scorching and unforgiving high temperatures we have been subjected to has been quite an unpleasant ordeal for those in or out of farming alike. For the farmer who had to watch their rain fed crop wilt each passing day, the climate change was quite devastating and heart wrenching. The question some may ask is who is to blame? We all know who is to blame. Some of the calamities we fall into are all because of our unpreparedness and failure to plan effectively. The Book of Proverbs 30 verse 25 says, “The ants are not strong but they prepare their food”. Likewise, we must plan ahead to prevent losses especially in agriculture. The dependency of the Zimbabwean farmer on rain water needs to come to an end. We are in the 21st century where the need for optimum crop and animal production systems requires a constant supply of water. The only way to provide this constant supply of water is to have a stable water source and that is through wells, boreholes, dams or reservoirs. It is quite sad that in this day and age one would depend on the unpredictability of weather patterns. We have observed and felt the effects of inconsistent weather patterns and so why should we place all our faith in that rain? The Zimbabwean farmer should now exploit alternative water sources such as boreholes, wells and invest in water harvesting. The farmers should also use solar pumps to cut on cost of electricity. We cannot deny the fact that climate change should be addressed and mitigation measures must be put in place to ensure our agricultural sector continues to strive. However, in the meantime what happens to us? Should farmers make huge losses and lose their crop and not invest money as they await the perfect solution to climate change? That cannot be wise. There are a number of farmers that have planted a variety of crops dependant on rainfall. Imagine how their crops and some of their animals are doing. The lack of borehole drilling also makes farmers highly unproductive. A reliance that leaves our farmland unproduction for greater part of the year is not good because we need to use the land throughout the year. Land can and is productive all year round more so if the correct crop rotation procedures are followed. It is high time that we as farmers take an initiative to drill boreholes on our land. We cannot solely rely on rainfall for successful crop production. There is a need to do things differently if we are to overcome the challenges of climate change. Are we not tired of being average farmers, complaining about things we cannot change? Are we not tired of hearing stories of success from fellow farmers yet we do not make a change in the right direction? Success is not an event; it is a process, a journey which in some cases can even take a whole lifetime just for someone to achieve their one goal. Every single person who is successful in this world started off somewhere and they all have a story to tell. That is, a story about their prayers and fasting, their passion, sacrifices, sleepless nights, dedication, relentlessness and constant determination to achieve their goals. This is the story behind most millionaires and billionaires. The good news is that we are all potential billionaires! If only people would take time to listen, learn and adapt (LLA), to read, understand, know and apply (RUKA). Emerald Agribusiness Consultancy has identified a borehole drilling company offering to drill and case up to 40 metres. The company is charging about $2 000, they, however, will only come to Matabeleland if we have many individuals and companies that want their services. One can contact us if they would like their services. Some words to contemplate upon are from Proverbs 6:10-15 of the New King James Version (NKJV), “A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep. So shall your poverty come on you like a prowler and your need like an armed man”. The writer is Eng. Tapuwa Justice Mashangwa, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Emerald Agribusiness Consultancy based in Bulawayo.  He can be contacted on +263 771 641 714 and email: tjmashangwa@gmail.com <mailto:tjmashangwa@gmail.com>