Prince Sunduzani, Business Reporter THE Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) will this week hold the first consultative workshop to deliberate on the National Tourism Sector Strategy that will help in repositioning the country as an attractive investment hub. ZTA said the meeting, to be held in Harare on Thursday in collaboration with the Ministry of Tourism and Hospitality Industry, is meant to get input from sector stakeholders in a bid to map out a strategy for marketing the Zimbabwe brand through tourism. The complete National Tourism Sector Strategy (NTSS) is expected to be launched by the end of March 2018. “In line with repositioning Zimbabwe as an investment hub, ZTA in collaboration with the Ministry of Tourism and Hospitality Industry is spearheading the development of the National Tourism Sector Strategy (NTSS).” “ The local authority whose main mandate is to lead the country’s efforts in marketing brand Zimbabwe will be convening a workshop for all tourism stakeholders through the Zimbabwe Council for Tourism and the tourism industry on February 8, 2018 at the Harare International Conference Centre,” said the authority. The NTSS is meant to foster a shared vision on the development and promotion of tourism in Zimbabwe. In this light, the upcoming high level consultative workshop will be convened to solicit for input from stakeholders. “The workshop, which is the first of its kind, is envisaged to attract a variety of participants including among others, enabler ministries, government agencies, tourism investment promoters and the tourism industry at large,” said ZTA. At present, the country does not have a tourism sector strategy that sets concrete targets and provides a clear road map for guiding the tourism industry. ZTA said the development of the NTSS was important to the sector as it helps unlock its potential for growth by identifying key strategies that can be used in doing so. “The development of NTSS is a critical and priority programme for Zimbabwe. “This is important if the tourism sector has to unlock its potential and meaningfully contribute towards national economic revival, growth and development,” it said. @PrinmceNksoy102