Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent Authorities at old people’s homes have urged Government to allocate them a grant to run the institutions as most of them are financially crippled. Speaking in an interview yesterday during a meeting that was held at the Gwanda Old People’s Home, the chairperson of the Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Labour and Social Welfare Cde Magna Mudyiwa said  authorities at homes so far visited had all appealed for Government assistance to run the homes. Cde Mudyiwa, who is also Mudzi West MP, said the authorities told them that they were financially crippled hence the appeal to Government to allocate them a grants. “We have been to Midlands, Masvingo and Matabeleland South provinces and the story is the same that the homes are struggling to meet basics,” said Cde Mudyiwa. He said the homes need an administrative grant that can help them run operations. “At times the committees that are running these homes are forced to fork out money from their pockets to buy things like medication for the inmates among other basic needs,” she said. Cde Mudyiwa said the homes have also indicated that they are facing transport challenges to take those who would have fallen ill to hospitals. She said some homes did not have basic things such as gloves for care givers and many of them were facing food shortages. Cde Mudyiwa said her committee observed that Government has not been doing much to assist old people’s homes and there was therefore an urgent need to start doing so. Speaking during the meeting with the committee members, Gwanda Old People’s Home chairperson, Cde Rido Mpofu said the institution has nine senior citizens but has the capacity to accommodate 15. He said they have plans to expand the institution so that they can accommodate 40 senior citizens. “The institution was established in 2004 but we started housing inmates in 2005. We had nine as a start and we want to increase capacity to 40. “We appeal to Government to allocate us an administrative grant that will help finance our operations. There is a need to pay electricity bills, buy food, medical supplies such as bandages and drugs as well as pay our care givers,” he said. Cde Mudyiwa’s committee will compile a report to be presented to Parliament after visiting all the provinces. @DubeMatutu