Professor Mqhele Dlodlo Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter NEWLY appointed National University of Science and Technology (Nust) Vice Chancellor, Professor Mqhele Dlodlo, is set to commence work on April 1. Prof Dlodlo is said to be serving notice at the University of Cape Town (UCT) where he is an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering. The university’s council chairman, Ambassador Zenzo Nsimbi, said Prof Dlodlo would be available full time at the institution beginning in April. “I actually sent his letter today (yesterday). He is starting at the beginning of April but because he has an issue, he has to give notice where he is. He will come in next week for introductions and effectively from next week onwards he will be available for Nust. But he will be resident at Nust continuously from the 1st of April,” said Ambassador Nsimbi. “But for March he will be going in and out because he is finalising with PhD students he is supervising in Cape Town, so he can’t just leave. So he will be with Nust and Cape Town supervising his students but from the 1st of April he will be here continuously.” President Emmerson Mnangagwa recently appointed Professor Dlodlo as Nust substantive Vice Chancellor. The university has been operating without a substantive Vice Chancellor since the expiry of the late Prof Lindela Ndlovu’s contract in 2015. The university’s Pro Vice-Chancellor Prof Samson Sibanda has been acting since then. Prof Dlodlo served as a principal lecturer and head of the Electrical Craft Department at Bulawayo Polytechnic from 1983 to 1992. In 2000, he joined Nust as a senior lecturer in the department of Electronic Engineering before being promoted to the post of Dean in the Faculty of Industrial Technology from May 2002 to December 2003. He joined the University of Cape Town as an Associate Professor in January 2005 and also served as Assistant Dean in Internationalisation from January 2011 to December 2015. At the time of his appointment as Nust vice chancellor, Prof Dlodlo was still working at UCT. @AuxiliaK