Sarah Mpofu Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent VETERAN modelling instructor Sarah Mpofu believes she is up to the task of holding a successful Miss Tourism Zimbabwe pageant. Mpofu who has successfully hosted Miss Zimbabwe, Miss Tourism, Miss Africa and Miss Bulawayo over the years was earlier this week, awarded the licence to once again host the event by the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority. She was also made patron of the pageant for the next three years, taking over from Barbara Mzembi. She commended ZTA for recognising that the pageant needed to be run by people who had the knowhow. “It’s only right to let those industry leaders to run it. I’m not saying that I’m the best for the job, but all I’m saying is that I’ve been given the opportunity and I’m going to do my best. I can’t do right by myself as I’ll need the whole nation to support this cause,” said Mpofu. Spelling out her vision, Mpofu said: “The pageant isn’t about Sarah Mpofu, this is far beyond me. It’s bigger than Fingers Academy also. It’s not about bringing new fancy ideas because at the end of the day, if I bring the glitz and glam alone, that won’t edify the purpose of the pageant. “I’ve been given this chance and I’m here to do what I do best, what I believe in and to follow my passion.” The only saddening thing for Mpofu is that her mentor, the late Kiki Divaris is not around to see her shine, but she said she will use the advice she got from her from their interactions over the years. “It’s unfortunate that my icon Kiki Divaris who believed in me is no more. But I’ll still go back to some of her ideologies for the successful hosting of the pageant. I’ll also seek help from past winners such as Lorraine Maphala-Phiri and Samantha Tshuma.” The veteran modelling instructor said her first port of call was to bring back the regional finals which had been replaced by national casting. “The first thing is to appoint regional licence holders. We’re going back to the regional contests. We’re therefore calling upon interested parties to send in their proposals to the ZTA and then we’re going to vet each and every one of them. “Thereafter, we’ll choose people who can run the 10 regional finals,” Mpofu said. “The licence holders will hold the contests in Bindura, Harare, Gweru, Mutare, Chinhoyi, Victoria Falls, Marondera, Bulawayo, Beitbridge and Masvingo.” Mpofu said after appointing the regional licence holders they were going to select dates and venues where the regional finals will be held. Ideally, the regional finals will be held between May and June this year. “Some of the regional licence holders will likely run more than one province depending on their capacity. The national finals should be set tentatively for September,” she said. By bringing back the regional finals, Sarah Mpofu will afford the models an opportunity to have a feel of the ramp ahead of the national finale. Also, contestants will be guaranteed of support from their towns and cities as the public will witness them compete for slots at the grand finale. Mpofu believes that the hosting of regional finals is an important part of the selection of the queen as it increases competition among models as they will have to prove their worth by competing for a slot at the finals rather than casting where there is no competition. Miss Tourism Zimbabwe, Mpofu said will go on to represent the country at the Miss Tourism World finals taking place on New Year’s Eve.