Cde July Moyo Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent GOVERNMENT has said the National Chiefs Council is best placed to address complaints raised against traditional leaders who dabble in politics. The Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Cde July Moyo said this on Wednesday during the National Assembly’s question and answer session. Cde Moyo was responding to opposition Members of Parliament (MPs) who quizzed him on Government’s stance regarding traditional leaders’ participation in political processes. Section 281 of the country’s Constitution states that traditional leaders must be apolitical. Cde Moyo said in line with the country’s Constitution, his Ministry cannot censure chiefs on what to do as his portfolio only caters for traditional leaders’ administrative matters. He said those who have complaints against the conduct of some chiefs should approach the Chiefs Council. “As the Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing, I am not the supervisor or controller of the constitutional provisions and it is not the Ministry’s policy to look into the issue of chiefs pronouncing themselves about their political persuasion,” said Cde Moyo. “The appointment and disciplinary procedures for chiefs is now the responsibility of the Provincial Assembly of Chiefs as well as the National Assembly of Chiefs. “This is provided for in the Constitution. Nowhere does the Constitution allow me to discipline any chief in this country at present.” The Minister said his Ministry only caters for the welfare of chiefs. He said members of the public who have complaints against the conduct of traditional leaders should approach the council. Cde Moyo said Government cannot stop chiefs from sloganeering on their political persuasions. “If we are to say that the Minister should rein them in, the Minister will have problems. If there are those that are not happy about what happened to chiefs, chiefs have their National Council of Chiefs, they have Provincial Assemblies of Chiefs, and so, you should take your complaints to those fora so that these issues can be attended to,” he said. The Speaker of Parliament, Advocate Jacob Mudenda, said the country’s Constitution states that Government should not be involved in addressing issues regarding chiefs. “The Constitution must be read wholesomely. Notwithstanding the quoted Section 281, you have to read the Constitution also in terms of Section 287, which speaks to the Integrity and Ethics Committee of the Council of Chiefs. “In subsection (c), one of the responsibilities of that Committee and I quote, ‘is to deal with complaints against traditional leaders,” said the Speaker. — @nqotshili