Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter THE Matabeleland Amateur Swimming Board (MASB) has announced a 61-member squad to represent the province at the National Junior Swimming Championships to be held in Harare next month. The squad consists of 32 boys and 29 girls. Selected swimmers from the Under-8 to the Under-12 age groups were drawn from local clubs, Petra Swimming Academy, Zambezi Tigers, Barracudas, Falcon, Stingrays, Crusaders, School of Swimming, Dolphins and Penguins. MASB press liaison officer Thomas Werret is confident the team will bring home a host of medals. “Firstly l would like to congratulate those that have made it into the squad, l can safely say hard work has paid for them. We have put together the best team and I have no doubt they will win a number of medals. The team was selected according to performances in previous competitions. Our Juniors have been doing well this year, a number of Matabeleland records have been broken by these guys, so we are hoping to see national records tumble,” said Werret. Bulawayo swimmers will continue training with their respective clubs until combined training sessions at a later stage. Matabeleland will face stiff competition from perennial rivals Mashonaland. They will pin their hopes on Chloe Werrett, Tichatonga Makaya, Onesimus Ngwenya, Mbali Sibanda and Onye Onovo who recently broke three Matabeleland records. Meanwhile, MASB will host the National Senior Swimming Championships at the Bulawayo City Pool this month. Squad Chloe Werrett, Daniel Connolly, Kudzai Chapepa , Patrick Duff, Shumi Zvenyika, Abake Moyo, Kelsey De Swardt,Daniel Oxden-Willows, Adrianna Bhana, Joshah Siwela, Grace Hensman, Liam Chicksen, Mbali Sibanda, Sibusiso Fayayo, Ryah Mason, Nsikelelo Sibanda, Shayna Middleton, Kwandokuhle Nkomazana, Savanna Smith, Nicolas Roukounis, Jayden Weale, Courtney Banda, Tinotenda Chiwara, Kundai Alexio Chigariro, Onye Onovo, Onesimus Ngwenya, Chante Querl, Tichatonga Makaya, Avril Carinus, Ruan Nel Jade Chicksen, Jayden de Swardt, Desiree Soganile, Kayden Bhana, Zoe Gangira, Romeo Kahwema, Nozintaba Masiye-Moyo, Darren Ncube, Morgan Liddle, Vidal Bravo, Pamela Ncube, Mitchell Stanley Nadia Gorenykin, Emmanuel Sibanda, Olivia Accorsi, Cameron Rae, Caitlyn O’Donnell, Pearson Mumba, Makhosazana Nkomazana, Reece Rollo, Thapelo Nare, Yolanda Netsha, Tawanda Jani, Nomaqhua Ndlovu, Khaya Vimba, Mary Hensman, Tyler Varley, Kaelyn Manuel, Odinaka Onwuchukwa, Sibusiso Sibanda, Fanuel Zvenyika — @innocentskizoe