Matthew Rusike ZIMBABWE striker Matthew Rusike scored 82 seconds into his Cape Town City debut to deliver a 1-0 victory at Bidvest Wits on Wednesday in a Nedbank Cup Round of 32 clash. Lowly second-tier club Ubuntu completed a great night for Cape Town sides by scoring in extra time to triumph 3-2 over topflight visitors Polokwane City. Absa Premiership team AmaZulu survived a scare in another tie, conceding in the final minute of extra time to be held 2-2 by lower-league Mthatha Bucks before winning 3-0 on penalties. Harare-born Rusike (27) joined City from Tunisian outfit Club Africain and made his mark in less than two minutes at rain-drenched Milpark Stadium in Johannesburg. Veteran midfielder Teko Modise lofted the ball into the box and Rusike soared between two defenders to direct a looping header over goalkeeper Darren Keet and into the net. Reigning league champions Wits dominated thereafter, but as has been the case so often this season, an inability to finish good approach play proved their undoing. “What a wonderful header,” said beaming Cape Town coach and former South African star Benni McCarthy. “It could not have been better placed.” McCarthy should know – he scored a record 31 goals for his country and was part of the Jose Mourinho-managed Porto team that won the 2004 Uefa Champions League. In an eventful first season coaching, McCarthy has served a two-match ban, been fined for calling a referee a “cow” and been branded “a baby who needs a lollipop” by Ajax Cape Town head coach Muhsin Ertugral. Ubuntu, who prop up the second division standings with just three wins from 20 matches, shocked Polokwane through a Siyambonga Madikane goal on 114 minutes. In a seesaw struggle at Athlone Stadium, the Cape Town club trailed and led before Zimbabwean Water Musona equalised for Polokwane to force extra time. Linda Bhungu levelled in the final minute of extra time for Bucks, who lie second last in the second division, but they exited after failing to convert a single shootout spot-kick. The round of 32 continues Friday when lower-league Cape Town All Stars host Absa Premiership leaders and 2016 African champions Mamelodi Sundowns. —Sport24.co.za