 Established in 2012, Higher Learning Centre Private Christian high school offers Form One to Form Six classes with a full curriculum and is now a Cambridge examination centre. The first sitting will be during the October/November 2018 examinations and thereafter the school will be administering the May/June and October/November sittings. In 2014, Higher Learning Centre (HLC) was awarded the Secretary’s Bell Award for academic excellence while in 2016 the school was named the Better Schools Program Zimbabwe Best Administered School in Bulawayo Central. The school whose teaching method is child centred offers all science, commercial, technical and arts subjects as well as sports such as basketball, swimming, hockey and cricket. It also offers clubs including drama, music, interact, public speaking, debate and dance.  “Vacancies are still available from Form One right up to Form Six and our fees are pegged at $460 per term. We have a low teacher to                                    pupil ratio which is important for our pupils,” said Mr Philani Mathe, the school headmaster. HLC was registered with the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education on May 2, 2012 and opened its doors to the public in 2013. The school is an all-encompassing institution which has a well-equipped science lab, library and computer laboratory. Learners are taught biblical solutions to life challenges through comprehensive Bible studies. The aim of the high school is to provide education that will equip pupils with professional and life skills that are needed in today’s modern world. As a Zimbabwean co-educational school, HLC seeks to develop, empower and inspire the youth through low teacher to pupil ratio, providing the learner with well-equipped learning facilities, offering vocational subjects to enhance their career opportunities and to offer a wide range of sporting disciplines. The school also seeks to create a homely environment to all races, cultures, social class and religion. The pictures show various activities which pupils take part in at Higher Learning Centre HLC uses technological and scientific methods in lesson delivery and research and also engages highly qualified and dedicated staff while striving to treat all learners equally regardless of their physical condition. Pupils are groomed to give back to the community and to become socially responsible. The school is open for viewing every Friday from 2PM to 4PM. For more information and enquiries on enrolment, please visit 68 Samuel Parirenyatwa Street or call (09) 60228 or (09) 880268. 