Candice Mwakalyelye ONE of urban radio’s most distinctive voices, Candice Mwakalyelye, is back on the airwaves after recently rejoining ZiFM Stereo, Zimbabwe’s first privately-owned radio station. Naturally equipped with journalistic skills, a real beauty with an infectious voice, the famous news anchor has had a successful career in her favourite field which she joined in Tanzania scoring a couple of presenting gigs at several award shows. ZiFM listeners were on Monday late afternoon in jubilance after she appeared on The Rush news with Misred and DJ Munya. Candice, who left the station two years ago to pursue other interests, said she had indeed rejoined the station and admitted that she had missed the microphone. “It feels like home. The mic was turned on and it felt like I never left,” she said. After leaving the station in December 2016, Candice relived her first reaction when she got the call from Newlands to rejoin the station. “That call was bittersweet”, she recalls. On the one hand, I couldn’t help but question why and why now, but I also missed radio and media as a whole. So after a bit of back and forth, we finally agreed and here we are.” “Honestly if they hadn’t called, I probably wouldn’t have realised how much I miss it and continued with everything else I have been doing.” She said the decision to rejoin the station was an easy one as she understands the station’s DNA something she says is embedded in her spirit. “It only made sense to me. No awkward new job stress,” she said with enthusiasm. Other than Candice, ZiFM Stereo has also brought back some of their founding DJs in the mould of the exciting Tin Tin and Kimble Rodgers. Commenting on the news of the return of the two, Candice guaranteed the station’s listeners of good times. “I haven’t seen them yet but I’m excited to have them with me as part of the original crew that kicked off ZiFM Stereo. It’s always a party with those two and I’m sure the listeners will enjoy their unique edge.” Candice possesses the most articulate voice on radio today. Her resonant communication style, characterised by her distinctive vocal tone especially when she pronounces her surname, made her an instant darling on the radio. The charismatic newscaster who has garnered a lot of admirers said she is going to be around as long as listeners want her. Quizzed why she left the station initially, Candice said it was for her growth. “I left because it’s always important to know your limitations as a person. When you feel some type of way about something or even just life, in general, it’s ok to take a step back and recalibrate. “I did that and I believe it was the best thing at the time. It helped me preserve my relationship with the station and also helped me grow personally. “I have opened the doors to several of my dreams over the past few months, the biggest one being my lingerie business. Now I can go back to work and grow my passions simultaneously.” Candice returns to the news and current affairs desk for now as they discuss other avenues of growth within the station. — Zimbuzz