 Tapuwa Justice Mashangwa MANKIND in some way has a need or desire for independence, whether it is bad or good only God knows. Sometimes this desire has spurred individuals to accomplish great goals and in some cases has led to the most disastrous outcomes mankind has ever seen. Ever since time beginning the relationship between the farmer and middlemen I believe has always been strained. The average farmer views the middleman as an opportunist, and the middleman’s integrity is questioned as some may conclude that he cheats and is exploitative. In all it is perception and if the values of honesty and transparency are maintained then all is well. The Bible talks about the human body as a collective of individual parts with defined roles that holistically function for the optimum functionality of the human body. Agribusiness is the same. It functions best when those involved can fully express and utilise their God-given talents. Some farmers are multi-talented and can grow and market their produce well to the final consumer and others do not have that talent or knowhow, hence to be fair let us analyse the advantages and disadvantages of the middleman. Can a farmer without marketing knowledge sell their produce for an optimum price? The farmer would have to have studied the markets efficiently over time and the market for agricultural produce is unstable. What sells at a high price today might not be sellable tomorrow. The buyers of a particular produce might not need the produce tomorrow and the prices of the goods could drop. As the farmer without the marketing expertise tries to sell off their produce they stand to make a loss due to ignorance and there is also the time-cost factor to consider. Can the farmer afford to grow agro-plants or rear animals and concurrently be aware of market intricacies? Some can and others cannot. For those that are unaware of market intricacies, the middleman can step in and assist the farmer obtain the best prices of their commodities and further capacitate them with knowledge about market performance and requirements which are vital and pivotal pillars of information in agriculture. Farming is best begun with knowledge of what the market requires and at what price. We cannot however overlook the exploitative nature of some middlemen. Not everyone believes and upholds basic human standards of honesty and transparency. The middleman can also lie and take advantage of farmers unaware of true produce pricing in the market and they then can reap huge profits that the farmer cannot access nor will reap. If the two, the middleman and the farmer can cooperate and work together the sky becomes the limit for their mutual achievable goals. Imagine the combination of the middleman with precise data on market pricing and strategies and the farmer with expert knowledge and skills on how to grow and produce what the market requires. The power of two! With this new dispensation, the sun is rising in the horizon, investors with large pockets are coming. Zimbabwean farmers will now be exposed to new markets and new products they can supply the national, regional and international market. It is an interesting and exciting period to experience and partake. Contract farming opportunities are already beginning to rise and the number of countries interested in a variety of Zimbabwean produce is growing daily. Farmers that have invested and well planned their farming activities and calendar will reap the rewards of their hard work and foresight. It is also advisable for the Zimbabwean farmer to be capacitated and upgrade their farming enterprises. Farmers are already now and will even more be competing with international brands. The days of lackadaisical farming are over. The international market has quality standards and farming will be restored to run and operate at its best. In the end the quest for independence can be condoned when it brings forth new opportunities and benefits those involved without the exploitation of those dependent or participative in its system. It is paramount to remember that no one lives in a glass cube. Humans were created to interact and help each other and when we can all improve the lives of those around us, our God given purpose and role is fulfilled. *Tapuwa Justice Mashangwa is the founder and chief executive officer of Emerald Agribusiness Consultancy based in Bulawayo.  He can be contacted on +263 771 641 714 and email; tjmashangwa@gmail.com <mailto:tjmashangwa@gmail.com>