Police Commissioner-General Godwin Matanga Freeman Razemba and Samantha Chipoyera, Harare Bureau THE newly appointed Police Commissioner-General Godwin Matanga has pledged to selflessly and loyally serve the force, Government and the people of Zimbabwe. He was elevated to the position a week ago taking over from Augustine Chihuri who has retired. Speaking during the official opening of the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) New Headquarters and Forensic Science Laboratory in Harare on Thursday, Comm-General Matanga applauded President Mnangagwa for promoting him. “Today, in Zimbabwe, there is a small, but happy family,” he said. “That family has been reposed with the rare honour of having one of its own leading the Zimbabwe Republic Police. “Indeed, the Matanga family and the man, Tandabantu Godwin Matanga, sincerely thank you, Your Excellency. I wish therefore, Your Excellency, to assure you of my commitment and readiness to selflessly and loyally serve you, the Government and the people of Zimbabwe as the Commissioner-General of Police.” Comm-Gen Matanga said during his inauguration, President Mnangagwa said it was no longer business as usual. “Borrowing from that vision, allow me to also say that, it will no longer be policing as usual in the Zimbabwe Republic Police,” he said. “Not very long ago, we paid a very heavy price to our masters, the people of Zimbabwe. Your Excellency will recall the events of the 24th of November which are still very fresh in everyone’s memory. On that day, that great day, amid pomp, ululation and fanfare when the whole nation rose in unison to salute and celebrate your ascendancy to the country’s Presidency, the ZRP was forced by the same multitude at the National Sports arena to tag its tail between its legs. “You are on record as saying that, “the people’s voice, is God’s voice”. Indeed, the people spoke and we had to do deep self-introspection. We had to redeem ourselves and mend our ways and serve our masters well.” President Mnangagwa congratulated Comm-Gen Matanga. He said his confirmation came as a double celebration as a result of the completion of the CID Headquarters and the Forensic Laboratory. “And while we say Congratulations, Makorokoto, Amhlophe the Zimbabwe Republic Police for the “double fortune” bestowed on it, we are equally conscious of the great expectations of society for the newly appointed Commissioner General to, “hit the ground running”, by providing much-needed investigative and forensic science laboratory services to the people,” said President Mnangagwa. Comm-Gen Matanga thanked Government for providing resources for the completion of the new offices.