Portifa Dombojena (right) shares a lighter moment with CABS managing director Simon Hammond during the Old Mutual Relay Challenge prize presentation at Old Georgians Sports Club recently Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau DEFENIDNG champion of the Old Mutual Harare marathon, Portifa Dombojena, says he wants to improve his time when he takes part in the race tomorrow. The marathon starts and ends at Harare’s Old Georgians Sports Club. The 42.2km race has evolved with time, starting off as the Old Mutual Rodger Brackley marathon, then Old Mutual RB Relay Challenge and Old Mutual Relay Challenge before it’s rebranding to Old Mutual Harare marathon. Besides the marathon, which is the main event, there is also a 21km race, 10km and 5km run on offer. Dombojena has been the title holder for the last two years and is hoping to improve his time after clocking 2hours 20minutes 30seconds in the previous edition. “I am looking forward to improving my time but I haven’t been training well because there were some hiccups. But my target is to run a better time than last year because I want to run Two Oceans end of March. So I want to prepare with this race. “Last year I ran 2hours 20minutes and the previous year I ran 2hours 19minutes, so if we can push each other for 2hours 18minutes it will be much better,” said Dombojena. The 33-year-old is being cautious ahead of the race and said competition is likely to be tough since it is also serving as a qualifying race for the 2018 Old Mutual Two Oceans and Comrades ultra-marathons. “Competition is always stiff, you have to train enough because most of the runners I am training with you can tell they are really pushing, so you never know what happens on the day of the race. “You just can’t be over confident and underrate others so for me the most important thing is to compete and finish the race,” said Dombojena. In the women’s section, last year’s winner Lizzie Chokore will not be defending her title as she is set to compete in another event in South Africa. Harare Athletics Club committee member Martin Webster said although the race has been rebranded to Old Mutual Harare marathon, the relay event is still part of the event. Meanwhile, the National Athletics Association of Zimbabwe are holding the national cross country championships this morning at Hillside Dams, in Bulawayo.