Dr David Parirenyatwa Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent THE Minister of Health and Child Care, Dr David Parirenyatwa, has appointed a seven-member board for Gwanda Provincial Hospital charged with, among other duties, ensuring improved service delivery at the institution. The board, chaired by Mr Sifelipilo Bhebhe, is also comprised of Dr Pugy Chimberengwa, Mrs Judith Moyo, Mr Thompson Mabikwa, Ms Best Mahuwa, Mrs Japhet Dube and a Ms S Mguni. Speaking at the hospital during a ceremony to present the board members, Dr Parirenyatwa said the board’s duty was to come up with strategies of addressing challenges that were being faced at the hospital. “The country has six central hospitals which have boards and they are being led by CEOs. We also have eight provincial hospitals that are run by medical superintendents and they also need boards. “That is why I’m appointing a board for this hospital. We need this board to be the interface between the community and hospital. As a board you have a duty to look into the staff and patient welfare, mobilise resources needed in the hospital and come up with strategies of improving service delivery at this hospital,” said Dr Parirenyatwa. He said the board comprises personnel who included lawyers, business people, pharmacists and medical staff. Dr Parirenyatwa, who also conducted a tour of the hospital, applauded the hospital staff for making significant progress in refurbishing the institution. He noted that the hospital was facing staffing challenges and shortages of medication like most health institutions in the country. The Minister said the hospital was supposed to have 19 consultants but is operating with none. Dr Parirenyatwa said the Ministry was targeting to address shortage of drugs and staffing challenges within medical institutions as part of its 100-day plan. “As a Ministry we are still using the staff establishment pattern which was set in 1984 and there are still vacancies which have not been filled. What we shall do for starters is speak to Treasury in order to fill these vacancies then we will go on to update the staff establishment to be in line with current demands. “Most of our institutions are experiencing staff shortages which are making it difficult to ensure effective service delivery,” he said. Members of the board took turns to commit themselves towards improving the state of the hospital and addressing prevailing challenges. Speaking at the same event, the Minister of State for Matabeleland South Provincial Affairs, Cde Abednico Ncube, hailed Dr Parirenyatwa for appointing the board saying it will help in addressing outstanding issues like the construction of a provincial hospital. Cde Ncube urged the board to pursue the project and ensure that funds were availed for the construction of a bigger hospital. He said the Gwanda Provincial Hospital served as a referral point for several districts in the province hence the need to improve it. — @DubeMatutu