Madinda Ndlovu addresses a Press conference yesterday Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter RECLAIMING the ZNA Charity Shield is not a priority for rebuilding Highlanders and coach Madinda Ndlovu says the aim is to improve the performance of his “machine” when they take on Chicken Inn at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday. Highlanders, the 2015 and 2016 ZNA Charity Shield champions and last year’s losing finalists, will be conservative to their approach of the semi-final encounter against Chicken Inn. Bosso played a goalless draw against Premiership new boys Nichrut in last weekend’s friendly at Luveve Stadium, with Ndlovu watching the match from the grandstand for an aerial view. His boys’ movement and their ability to create scoring opportunities impressed Ndlovu, who said they will work on their shortcomings on Sunday. “The first friendly game last week was designed to see how the players are combining. It was all about working on combinations. As the technical team, we are working on negatives and the positives we took from the game. Going into the game on Sunday, we are not worried about who our opponents are; we just want to rectify what we saw from that game (against Nichrut). All we are worried about is having the machine operating rather than winning anything,” said Ndlovu. Against Nichrut, Bosso had Ariel Sibanda guarding goal, Peter Muduhwa partnering Charlton Siamalonga in central defence and skipper Honest Moyo and new signing MacClive Phiri playing as wingbacks. Phiri put up a solid performance punctuated by good deliveries from his overlapping. New boy Patrick Musaka and Adrian Silla double anchored for Bosso, with Gabriel Nyoni and Godknows Makaruse playing on either side of the midfield. Nigel Makombe, a product of the Aces Youth Academy, played behind Thabo Lunga. Chicken Inn coach Joey Antipas said reaching the final would help them gauge their strength. The Gamecocks will use the weekend encounter to finalise their squad. Chicken Inn are likely to parade former Highlanders’ midfielder Simon Munawa, Kudzai Chideu, Wellington Kamudyariwa, club returnees Toto Banda and Adrian Banana, who are among the list of their latest acquisitions. Meanwhile, organisers of the tournament have retained the $3 rest of ground gate charges and $5 for the VIP wings. Proceeds from the tournament will be channelled towards the army’s charities. — @ZililoR