Mandla Da Comedian — ZimboJam Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent JESTER Mandla Da Comedian, who won the Outstanding Comedian Award at the National Arts Merit Awards (NAMA), has paid tribute to fellow comedian Long John for mentoring him in the early years of his career. In winning the NAMA two weeks ago, Mandla Da Comedian (22) became the youngest comic to do so, joining an illustrious cast of top comedians such as Carl Joshua Ncube, Clive Chigubhu, Q Dube and Simba the Comic King. Mandla Da Comedian (real name Mandlenkosi Simbarashe Mathe) began his career in 2014 under Umahlekisa Comedy Club in Bulawayo. He landed his second accolade after he won the Upcoming Comedian Award at the Shoko Festival in 2015. Born in Bulawayo and hailing from Pumula South, the comedian said he had his first slot at Umahlekisa and Long John gave him handy advice that he has cherished until the day he won the NAMA. “Long John has been my mentor for a long time. I remember when I wanted to start comedy in 2014, he was the one who convinced the likes of Ntando Van Moyo and Clive Chigubhu to give me an open Mic set. He’s the one who told me to enter the Shoko festival top comedian competition in 2015 and I won the Upcoming Comedian Award. His advice, mentorship and wisdom are gold, therefore I thank him and I dedicate this award to Long John,” said Mandla Da Comedian. Long John has been touring South Africa for the past two years and has made a name for himself south of the Limpopo. The comedian shared the stage with South African comic Donavan Goliath last year and stood toe to toe amongst comedians such as Chigubhu and Q Dube on the night. He said he felt that he deserved the award as he had a slight edge over his fellow nominees like the highly fancied Gonyeti. “I earned that award because of the hard work I put in over the years especially the previous one. Gonyeti is very popular but in terms of being a comedian, I believe I’m way better. I’m tri-lingual as I deliver my jokes in English, Shona and Ndebele which I think gave me an edge. Although I was nervous on the night, I felt that I’d win the award,” said Mandla Da Comedian. He said the award was now a passport for him to tackle the international stage. “Now this is the time to show Zimbabwe why I deserved to win this award. I see this award as a passport for me to travel the world. Now it is easy for me to get shows outside Zimbabwe since when I get booked people will know that I won the NAMA,” said Mandla Da Comedian. Funds permitting this year, Mandla Da Comedian said he plans to hold a one man show.