Musa Mandaza Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIFA Southern Region has given old clubs in the Southern Region Division One Soccer League, including those relegated from the Premier Soccer League up to February 24 to deposit at least half of their affiliation fees. The region’s directive comes after the newly promoted teams paid part of affiliation fees as a commitment to play in the 2018 season. The four newly promoted teams which beat the January 31 deadline are Toronto FC, CIWU and Mainline FC from the Zifa Bulawayo Division Two league as well as Moto moto of Matabeleland North. Binga side Lunde FC are yet to pay the $1 000 commitment fee. Plumtree-based Mainline FC, who finished fourth in the Bulawayo Division Two League, took over the Bantu Rovers franchise after Ajax Hotspurs of Mpopoma, who finished third, were overlooked as they owe the association substantial amounts. Affiliation fees for newly promoted clubs is $2 500, while old teams including those that were relegated from the Premiership pay $2 000. “We’re excited that the newly promoted sides have shown commitment and will have to pay the balance when the league starts. The old sides have to pay their commitment fees or their full affiliation fees by February 24, the day we have our annual general meeting. This is all being done so as to avoid a repeat of last season when two teams pulled out of the league at the 11th hour,” said Musa Mandaza, the Zifa Southern Region chairman. He said ZRP Bulawayo and Chiwororo who owe the league substantial amounts of money, have to clear their debts before being registered for the 2018 season. “We met officials from ZRP Bulawayo and they indicated that they have a new executive which is committed to meet its obligations. We also had a meeting with Chiwororo and told them that they have to show commitment and pay by the time we go for the AGM,” said Mandaza. The Southern Region welcomes back Hwange and Tsholotsho FC from the topflight. The two will start as favourites and will have to withstand pressure from sides like perennial campaigners ZPC Hwange, Talen Vision and Makomo, who finished the season strongly. Highlanders’ development side Bosso 90, army side Indlovu Iyanyathela, ambitious Casmyn, Black Boots and Zim Leopards are some of the sides to watch. Victoria Falls will this season have only one team, Mosi Rovers, following the relegation of Amagagasi and Victoria Falls Tigers. — @ZililoR 