Raisdon Baya Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent “LET’S do it again,” is the clarion call to the corporate world by organisers of the Bulawayo Arts Awards as the second edition was launched last Friday. The inaugural award ceremony held last year was the talk of the country as it dazzled many with some saying they were the best awards held in the land. This year the awards will be held on May 26 at the Large City Hall with nominations open to the public from February 23 and close on April 13. On Friday organisers called on the corporate world to help raise the over $50 000 needed to successfully hold the awards. Speaking during the launch at the Bulawayo Club, one of the organisers Saimon Mambazo Phiri, said this year they were not taking in pledges. “We need $50 760 in total to hold the awards successfully. Last year had quite a lot of pledges. Sadly most of those weren’t fulfilled. We spent two thirds of our productive time chasing after people and at some stage we started being enemies with people. We’re afraid that we’re not going to take pledges.  We want those who want to partner with us and are able to sign contracts with us so that they fufil their pledges,” said Mambazo. During the ceremony, another organiser Raisedon Baya revealed the 12 categories that artistes will vie for. He said nominations are open to any artiste from Bulawayo or Matabeleland North or South. “Artistes who were born in Matabeleland or Bulawayo and practising anywhere in the world are eligible. If you were born anywhere in the world and relocated to Bulawayo or Matabeleland you’re also eligible. We’re all inclusive, meaning the BAAs recognise and honour exceptional individuals and collaborative artistic efforts in the city of Bulawayo, Matabeleland North and South regardless of tribe, gender or race,” said Baya. During his presentation Baya spelt out the nomination process. “Artistes can self nominate, but they have to bring in the artefact or work that they feel is exceptional when they hand in their forms. The public can nominate their favourite artiste but here they’re not required to hand in any sample, all they have to do is to give reasons why they’ve nominated their favourite artiste,” said Baya. Nomination forms can be downloaded from www.byoarts-awards.org where fans can nominate their artiste online. Nomination forms are also available at the National Gallery in Bulawayo, Boom City along 8th Avenue between George Silundika and Robert Mugabe Way and Entertainment Headquarters between Leopold Takawira and 6th Avenue along George Silundika. Below are this year’s categories Music Awards 1. Outstanding Kwaito | House | Gqom Artist | Act 2. Outstanding HipHop Artiste | Act 3. Outstanding Gospel Artiste | Act 4. Outstanding Alternative (Maskandi/Jazz/ World) Music Artist | Act 5. Outstanding Tshibilika | Rhumba Artiste | Act 6. Outstanding Accapela | Imbube Group | Act 7. Outstanding Music Video 8. Outstanding Female Artiste 9. Outstanding Male Artiste 10. Song of the Year Dance Awards 11. Outstanding Contemporary Dance Ensemble 12. Outstanding Traditional Dance Ensemble 13. Outstanding Female Dancer 14. Outstanding Male Dancer Theatre Awards 15. Outstanding Playwright 16. Outstanding Director 17. Outstanding Theatre Actress 18. Outstanding Theatre Actor 19. Outstanding Theatre Production School Play Awards 20. Outstanding Arts Educator (Primary Schools) 21. Outstanding School Effort (Primary Schools) 22. Outstanding Arts Educator (High Schools) 23. Outstanding School Arts Effort (High Schools) 24. Outstanding Actor (High Schools) 25. Outstanding Actress (High Schools) Visual Arts Awards 26. Outstanding Visual Artist (Two Dimensional) 27. Outstanding Visual Artist (Three Dimensional) Media Awards 28. Outstanding Online Media 29. Outstanding Mainstream Media House 30. Outstanding Arts Journalist Across Board 31. Outstanding Arts Photographer Film & TV Awards 32. Outstanding Television Production | Program 33. Outstanding Film 34. Outstanding Film/TV Director 35. Outstanding Film/TV Actress 36. Outstanding Film/TV Actor Spoken Word Awards 37. Outstanding Comedian 38. Outstanding Poet Literary Works Awards 39. Outstanding Literary Work – Non fiction 40. Outstanding Literary Work – Fiction Fashion & Lifetyle Awards 41. Outstanding Female Model 42. Outstanding Male Model 43. Outstanding Fashion Designer | House Special Awards Awards 44. Outstanding Newcomer Across All Genres 45. Outstanding Ambassador based in RSA 46. Outstanding Ambassador – Rest of the World 47. Outstanding Arts Supporter 48. Life Achievement Award DJ Awards 49. Outstanding Radio DJ 50. Outstanding Club DJ