 THIS could be the spookiest cricket series since the 2005 Ashes when Shane Watson was startled by a ghost in Australia’s “haunted” hotel. And while Watson may or may not have been unnerved by the eerie history of Australia’s team hotel, Lumley Castle, the spook factor of Afghanistan’s one-day series with Zimbabwe comes from a purely statistical standpoint. The two teams split the opening two matches of the best-of-five contest with identical victories. In the opening fixture, Afghanistan won the toss and elected to bat; piling on 5-333 before wiping the visitors for 179 to secure a 154-run victory. Two days later, however, things got weird. This time Zimbabwe won the toss and elected to bat. In their 50 overs they matched Afghanistan’s game-one total, posting 5-333. Then the hosts were rolled for 179. Another 154-run win. If that wasn’t enough of a bizarre coincidence, they stepped things up a notch for the third encounter on Tuesday. Zimbabwe again won the toss and elected to bat, but this time were dismissed for the winning margin from the first two matches, 154 runs. It’s a run of results as confounding as Rashid Khan’s googly. Speaking of whom, the leg-spin sensation took five wickets as Afghanistan cruised to a six-wicket win at Sharjah. The Afghans now lead the series 2-1 with two matches remaining, as the teams warm up for the 2019 World Cup qualifiers in Zimbabwe next month. Zimbabwe collapsed from 3-117 to 154 all out as 19-year-old Khan finished with figures of 5-24. Rahmat Shah and Nasir Jamal both struck half-centuries in Afghanistan’s reply as they wrapped up victory with 22.3 overs remaining. Zimbabwe recovered from 3-44 with Sikandar Raza hitting 38 and Craig Ervine 39, but both fell LBW to Khan as the teenager, who was bought by Sunrisers Hyderabad for $1.41 million in last month’s IPL auction, ran through the middle order. Mujeeb Ur Rahman, 16, again impressed opening the bowling with his leg-breaks and claimed the key wicket of second-match centurion Brendan Taylor on his way to 3-45. Big-hitting Afghanistan wicketkeeper Mohammad Shahzad — continuing his return from a drugs ban — fell early, but Shah and Jamal combined to put on 69, before Mohammad Nabi and Najibullah Zadran finished the job with some lusty blows. Afghanistan will look to win the series in the fourth ODI at Sharjah tomorrow. On trend, Afghanistan will be bowled for 154. – Fox Sports