FC Platinum head coach Norman Mapeza (centre) addresses a press conference at a local lodge recently, flanked by new signings Albert Eyonde (left) from Cameroon and Shadreck Mayembe from Zambia. Pic By Dennis Mudzamiri. Lovemore Zigara in Gweru ZAMBIAN topflight football league side Nkana Red Devils coach Manfred Chabinga believes Castle Lager Premiership champions FC Platinum have the pedigree to go beyond the preliminary round of the Caf Champions League. The Zvishavane-based side face Angolan champions Club Desportivo de Aagosto in the first-leg of the Caf Champions League preliminary round this Sunday in Luanda. In preparation for the tie, Pure Platinum Play engaged Mozambican side Ferroviarro de Beira and Zambian sides Zanaco and Nkana Red Devils in friendly matches. The platinum miners managed a 0–0 draw against Nkana Red Devils at Mandava Stadium at the weekend and Chabinga believes Norman Mapeza’s charges are on the right track. “There is a difference between playing in the local league and playing in the Caf Champions League. I think they have that potential to go to the next round; it’s all about team work and hard work and I feel they will make it because they are a good side,” said Chabinga. “That they managed to win the league in Zimbabwe against some of the country’s top teams like Highlanders, Dynamos and Caps United shows that they are a good side. I know competition in this country is really tough.” FC Platinum made their maiden appearance in the continental safari in 2012, but their participation was checked by Sudanese side El Merreikh 5-2 on aggregate. The Sudanese beat the platinum miners 3–0 in the first league in Khartoum before forcing a 2-2 draw at the National Sports Stadium. The Zvishavane side faltered at the same stage again in their second African sojourn in the 2015 Caf Confederation Cup when they were bundled out by Tanzanian outfit Young Africans 5–2 on aggregate. The Tanzanians turned on the power to trounce FC Platinum 5–1 in the first-leg at home before FC Platinum edged them 1-0 in the second leg. @lavuzigara1