Mutumwa Mawere Lovemore Zigara, Business Correspondent THE defunct asbestos mining giant, Shabanie and Mashaba Mines (SMM), has bought de-watering equipment from Europe in preparation for resumption of operations after more than a decade of closure. SMM ceased operations in 2004 after the Government experienced some challenges with business tycoon Mr Mutumwa Mawere who was the owner of the mining giant. The Government, which has since raised funds for the resuscitation of SMM through the sale of a reprocessed dump, has appointed Mr Arafas Gwaradzimba as the company’s judicial manager. Some of the mine shafts have over the years been neglected leaving the company’s equipment submerged in water. However, recent efforts to re-open SMM have seen the firm embarking on a de-watering exercise expected to be completed before the end of the year. Minister of State for Midlands Provincial Affairs Mr Owen Ncube, who toured the mine recently accompanied by the mine’s management, said he had been informed that SMM had sourced de-watering equipment from Europe as it prepares to re-open. “The tour has been an eye-opener and I am impressed with the developments that have been going on there (SMM). They have started the process of de-watering the mines but the process has been slow hence they have ordered new equipment from Europe but they are now awaiting the release of funds from the Central Bank,” he said. “They told me that once the equipment arrives they will be able to expedite the exercise which will see the de-watering of mine shafts completed by the end of the year to pave way for the mechanisation of the mine.” The asbestos miner, in its efforts to turnaround, has been shoring up funding locally using its own resources and is looking for a partner to extract and process minerals from its asbestos tailing dumps. The company has engaged a consultant, Tailjet Consultancy Services, to expedite the process. SMM has 49 tailing dumps located at its two mines which contain magnesium, chrome, nickel, platinum group metals, copper and gold. The asbestos miner has started recruiting workers and targets to employ 800 people by the end of the year. At its peak, SMM employed 4 500 people. @lavuzigara1