ExQ Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent Valentine’s Day in Bulawayo passed without the pomp and verve of previous years. Not many people were spotted clad in the day’s red and white colours or carrying flowers while some restaurants did not receive brisk business as has been the norm. Instead, most people were gripped by the Valentine’s Day political stories on the sickness and death of opposition MDC-T leader Morgan Tsvangirai around 5pm on Wednesday and the stand-off in South Africa that ended with Jacob Zuma’s resignation hours later. Away from the politics, in the streets, for those who are single, it was a bearable day as not many rose carrying individuals were seen around the city. Even at workplaces, some did not get hand delivered roses, chocolates or gifts from their loved ones. It was as if everyone was single and had no person who was thinking of them on the day. The lucky few were visibly elated at receiving roses and various presents from their loved ones, but it lacked the verve of yesteryear. Those who walk around selling perfumes and roses were few and far between around the city showing that there was not much interest in the day. This was despite the fact that gift and retail shops as well as pharmacies had gone all out selling various treats such as teddy bears, coffee mugs, roses and perfumes which had been stocked in anticipation for brisk business. Most local celebs were busy with their careers such as Sandra Ndebele and Jah Prayzah who spent the day promoting their music videos released on the day of love. “Valentine’s for me was a busy day. I was promoting my new music video through various social media. We can’t relax in this industry and at night I found time for loved ones,” said Ndebele. It seemed most preferred to spend time with their love ones behind closed doors in the evening instead of wining and dining. A few people were spotted at Club Connect which serenaded lovers with love jams throughout the night with free chocolates given to the ladies. Nando’s was also a hive of activity as young couples as well as families were spotted celebrating. But in terms of gifts, it seems men were not forthcoming this time around or the ladies were secretive as there was not much bragging about the gifts on social media networking sites. Social media enthusiasts who hoped to catch a glimpse of their favourite celebrity’s Valentine’s Day celebrations had a bad day in office as there were few feeds from the celebrities, both locally and regionally. SA personality, Bonang Matheba who recently broke up with AKA only posted a picture of her poster promoting her lingerie range at Woolworths. Connie Ferguson, wife to Shona sent a heartfelt message to her husband with a post of a picture of a bouquet of roses downloaded on the Internet. “To love and be loved is the greatest feeling in the world. Thank you for being my eternal Valentine! I love you more than I can ever be able to express in words,” wrote Connie. ExQ who is performing in Bulawayo tonight at Club Cosmopolitan said he spent time with his family. Singer Tariro Negitare was out looking for money as she continued her business of serenading loved ones, delivering flowers upon request during the day.