President Mnangagwa boards a plane at Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport today before departing for the Democratic Republic of Congo as part of his regional courtesy calls following his inauguration as Zimbabwean President. – (Picture by Believe Nyakudjara) Nduduzo Tshuma in Kinshasa, DRC PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa yesterday afternoon held a closed-door meeting with his Democratic Republic of Congo counterpart Joseph Kabila and briefed him on the transitional process that led to the resignation of former President Cde Robert Mugabe in November last year. Emerging from the meeting, President Mnangagwa said he felt “home away from home” after the warm welcome he received. “I feel home away from home. President Kabila is a brother to me, I am his elder brother, he is younger but of course he is my elder colleague. “He has been President for a long time but we are actually family and I am very happy to be here in the DRC and I was briefing my brother about this transition that has taken place in Zimbabwe and committing the new administration to consolidate our already excellent relationship,” said President Mnangagwa. The visit is part of the courtesy calls the President is paying on regional leaders to explain the transition period that led to the resignation of the former president.  He has already been to Angola, Mozambique, Namibia, Botswana, Zambia and South Africa. Ministers accompanying President Mnangagwa here including Lieutenant General Sibusiso Moyo (Retired) (Foreign Affairs and International Trade), Simon Khaya Moyo (Energy and Power Development), Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri (Environment, Water and Climate) and Joram Gumbo (Transport and Infrastructural Development) also met their local counterparts. Earlier at 2pm, President Mnangagwa was received at Ndjili International Airport by the DRC Speaker of Parliament Dr Obey Minaku, Advisor to the President Mr Kikaya Bin Karubi, Zimbabwean Ambassador to the DRC Mr Raphael Faranisi, embassy staff and diplomats accredited to the DRC. He is also accompanied by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Defence, Mr Martin Rushwaya and Presidential spokesperson Mr George Charamba among other senior Government officials. After arrival, President Mnangagwa went to pay his respects and laid a wreath at the grave of the late DRC President Laurent Kabila who was killed in 2001. He then proceeded to the State House where he inspected a guard of honour before holding a closed door meeting with President Kabila. The President returns home today.