Takudzwa Ndoro Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter EXPERIENCED goalkeeper Takudzwa Ndoro has completed his move to Bulawayo City FC, becoming the 11th player to join Amakhosi during the pre-season. City survived relegation by a whisker on the last day of the 2017 season and are hopeful the squad they have assembled will effectively compete in the 2018 Premiership. Ndoro, who is among the four latest players to join City, has lots of experience having played for Extension Gunners and Botswana Defence Force XI in Botswana as well as in the South African National First Division for Witbank Spurs. Darlington Dodo, City’s coach, said the quartet of Ndoro, left-back Admire Dzumbunu, formerly with Shabanie Mine, ex-Triangle striker Tawanda Muendi and former How Mine winger Timothy January are settling in well at the club. “Our pre-season training has been going on well and we’ve beefed up our squad with experienced players as we try to come up with a side that will effectively compete in the league. We don’t want to fight relegation and the players are aware of this. “We’ve also brought on board new players to beef up the squad and they are settling well, trying to gel with the old players. The new players will give us another dimension to our play. I must say I’m impressed with the physical aspect of new and old players. What we are doing now is to get the combinations going,” said Dodo. The quartet of Ndoro, Dzumbunu, Muendi and January join seven other players that were signed last month by the local authority bankrolled side. City snapped up two former Highlanders players, utility player Erick Mudzingwa and striker Nhlanhla Ndlovu, whose contracts were not renewed by Bosso. Promising goalkeeper Wellington Muuya, who joined City from Bantu Rovers, will fight for the jersey with Ndoro. City have also sealed deals for the Tsholotsho FC trio of striker Tatenda Tavengwa, attacking midfielders Lucky Nyathi and Ayanda Ncube. The three reunited with Dodo, who coached them at relegated Premiership side Tsholotsho. Former Hwange attacking midfielder Justin Kaunda is among the players that have also been signed with the hope of leading the club to a respectable campaign. Mgcini Sibanda completes the list of City’s 2018 acquisitions. Sibanda joined City from How Mine where injuries dogged his rather promising career. The former Young Warriors’ striker will be hoping to revive his career at City and help solve their scoring problems. @ZililoR