Mr Godknows Mdhari Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Correspondent STUDENTS from the country’s institutions of higher learning are set to meet President Mnangagwa on Thursday in Harare to discuss their challenges. Zimbabwe Congress of Students Union (ZICOSU) Secretary General Mr Godknows Mdhari said all is set for the students to meet the President at the Harare International Conference Centre (HICC). Mr Mdhari emphasised that the meeting was not political and students affiliated with all political parties across the country would be represented. “ZICOSU Bulawayo Province takes pride in its contribution towards the new dispensation as we witnessed the large number of students who usually throng the President’s programmes thus far. We are committed to improving the quality of education in Zimbabwe as this is not only the bedrock that unifies our great nation but resonates with the President’s vision of educating the nation so that they gain the requisite skills that are needed to have this country gain middle class status by 2030,” said Mr Mdhari. He said students’ leaders at various tertiary institutions were working tirelessly in mobilising students and making the necessary preparations for the day. “We have done our preparations ahead of this day and students will travel from all provinces to Harare to have an audience with the president,” Mr Mdhari said. He said students were excited that the President was making time for them. “There are elections coming and it is expected that the President is busy with running the country and also the campaigns. However, we are excited that in all this, he is going to meet us on Thursday and we will be able to get inspired by his wisdom and also share with him our challenges as youths,” said Mr Mdhari. “It is important for us to have an interface with the President as he holds the highest office in the land. We want to take our grievances to him and also want to give feedback on the good things that have happened in the new dispensation so far.” National University of Science and Technology Student Representative Council president Mr Pablo Chimusoro said Nust students were excited and ready to meet the President in Harare. “We are happy that we will be travelling to Harare to meet the President on Thursday. We hope to engage in fruitful dialogue that will lead to the betterment of our welfare in tertiary institutions across the country. Students are getting an opportunity to air their grievances directly to the President without following long bureaucratic channels so we are happy about that,” he said. @andile_tshuma