President Mnangagwa Mkhululi Ncube, Chronicle Reporter TRADITIONAL leaders in Tsholotsho have said the new dispensation has passed the litmus test to deliver peaceful elections promised by President Mnangagwa when he came to power in November last year. Speaking on behalf of traditional leaders, Chief Mathuphula said the previous administration under Mr Robert Mugabe made a lot of promises to attend to various projects in the district but that was not fulfilled for years. The chief was speaking after a Zanu-PF rally in Tsholotsho addressed by Vice President Retired General Constantino Chiwenga on Wednesday. The VP promised action on some projects in Tsholotsho which have remained in the pipeline for years. The projects include the widening and tarring of the Bulawayo-Tsholotsho road, construction of houses for Tsholotsho flood victims, fixing the sewer and reticulation system at Tsholotsho District Hospital and construction of Tsholotsho Stadium. Chief Mathuphula said Government has delivered on some of its promises, especially the pledge to deliver a peaceful election. “The test that was given to the new government is the test of peace. When they spoke about having a peaceful environment during elections and that Zanu-PF as a party and the government as a whole would ensure or promote peace, we all doubted because we have never seen a peaceful election in Zimbabwe but up to now everyone seems to be very convinced the atmosphere on the ground is extremely peacefully. Everyone is preaching peace from the President to the lowest structures of the party,” said Chief Mathuphula. ‘That is a litmus test that they have passed and it has shown that there is a genuine commitment to the words and statements coming from government. With that we have a secure understanding of the government that what they say they do.” In his inauguration speech last year in November, President Mnangagwa pledged peaceful, fair and credible elections. So far a peaceful environment has largely prevailed in the country which is conducive for the will of the people to be registered.—@themkhust_ncube