 Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent SIX people have appeared in court for stealing 6 000 metres of copper cables worth $18 750 in Esigodini. Tinashe Mujakachi (30), Talent Kamupaundi (27), Loicy Sibanda (44), Emmanuel Noko (58), Freddie Kasema (23) and Brendon Dube (23), all from Bulawayo, were not asked to plead when they appeared before Gwanda magistrate, Miss Nomagugu Ncube facing                                                                     charges of cutting, damaging, destroying or interfering with electricity infrastructure. They were remanded in custody to August 9. Prosecuting, Mr Mncedisi Dube said the five men, who were working with a woman, stole the copper cables on three separate occasions. They were arrested on the third day while collecting their loot. He said Mujakachi and Kamupaundi were responsible for cutting the copper; Kasema and Dube were responsible for transporting it while Noko and his girlfriend Sibanda sold it. “The accused persons connived to steal Zesa copper cables from Esigodini area. On 17 July, Mujakachi, Kamupaundi, Kasema and Dube went to Endongeni Farm in Esigodini where they cut and stole 2 400 metres of copper wires valued at $7 500. “They transported the loot to Noko and Sibanda who sold the copper. “On 21 July the accused persons drove to Savikida Farm in Esigodini area where they cut off 1 200 metres of overhead copper wires valued at $3 750. Noko and Sibanda sold the copper cables,” he said. Mr Dube said on July 24 Mujakachi, Kamupaundi, Kasema and Dube went to Komani Farm where they cut off 2 400 metres of copper cables valued at $7 500 and left the wires there intending to collect them later. He said three security guards who were patrolling the area at night saw the copper cables lying on the ground and they lay in ambush. “Mujakachi and Kamupaundi arrived at the scene at around 3AM to collect the copper cables. The security guards apprehended them while they were rolling the copper cables. “Mujakachi and Kamupaundi implicated their other accomplices leading to their arrest as well. “Police carried out a search at Noko’s place of residence where they found a sack of about 15kg of scrap copper,” he said. Mr Dube said a bolt cutter that the accused persons used to commit the offence was also recovered.—@DubeMatutu