 Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter SIX people from Bulawayo have been arrested for stealing 600kg of copper cables worth $7 500 at Esigodini in Matabeleland South Province. The gang was arrested at Willsgrove Farm in the early hours of Tuesday morning. Their arrest comes barely two days after a quartet, two from Bulawayo and two from Matobo District, were arrested for another case of theft of copper cables worth $2 500 and  $5 625 in May and $3 600 earlier this month. Police said they have noted with concern that most of the copper cable theft syndicates were coming from Bulawayo, indicating that there could be a ready market in the city. A Zesa employee discovered there was an electrical fault at around 2AM on Tuesday, and as he attempted to work on the fault, he bumped into one suspect whom he apprehended. Further investigations led to the arrest of the rest of the syndicate who will appear in court soon. The suspects used a bolt cutter to cut about 300 metres of triple strand copper cables. Matabeleland South police spokesperson Inspector Philisani Ndebele confirmed the arrests. He identified the suspects as Tinashe Mujakachi (30), Talent Kamupaundi (27) both from Njube suburb, Emmanuel Noko (58) of Mpopoma suburb, Freddie Kasenza (23), Brandon Dube (23) and Loice Sibanda (44), all of Pumula South suburb in Bulawayo. “I can confirm the arrest of six suspects for alleged copper cable theft cases. A Zesa employee noted an electric fault and as he reacted to it, he bumped into one of the suspects. Investigations resulted in the rest of the syndicate which includes the alleged potential buyers from Bulawayo. The suspects  had stolen 600kg of cables worth $7 500 and are assisting police with further investigations,” said Insp Ndebele. In a related development, police on Sunday night ambushed and arrested a gang of four people in Bhazha area in Figtree. Villagers tipped off the police. The suspects allegedly stole copper cables worth $2 500 and $5 625 in May and $3 600 earlier this month. On Sunday they were allegedly found with three rolls which are yet to be valued. Two weeks ago, police in Matabeleland South appealed to anyone who may have information that can lead to the arrest of thieves who stole copper cables worth more than $28 000 in two different areas in Esigodini. Cables worth $28 125 were stolen at Blue Ridge Farm, while about $4 210 worth of cables were stolen near Sacred Heart Primary School and found dumped in the bush. — @winnie_masara