Koffi Olomide Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent NEWS coming from Zambia indicates that Congolese Rhumba kingpin Koffi Olomide has been banned from performing there over criminal allegations, with questions arising on whether he will perform in Zimbabwe. The French embassy in Zambia has asked the local authorities to arrest Olomide over various allegations such as of sexually assaulting dancers, kidnapping and employing them in France without permits. Following the appeal, Zambian media quoted their Religious Affairs minister Godfridah Sumaili as saying the singer would be arrested upon arrival if he lands in the country. Koffi is supposed to perform at the Harare International Conference Centre on August 3, two days after his now cancelled show in Zambia. With the French embassy also housed in Zimbabwe, the big question is will he also suffer the same fate as he did in Zambia? This is because he still has a case to answer with the European country and with bilateral ties with Zimbabwe and the regional connection with Zambia, fans are waiting with bated breath to see what will happen with just two weeks left for the show. Apparently, the local promoter was meant to split the costs of hosting Koffi with the Zambian promoter and with this cancellation now, the bill is now apparently too hefty for them as they are failing to go it alone. Local promoters of the show Sound Ablaze Entertainment however, insist the show is going on. Sound Blaze representative Calisto Murawo told reporters that Koffi had been cleared to perform in Harare adding that everything was going as planned. He said they are in overdrive mode with regards to organising the event as pre-concert tickets are already being sold at $15 for the ordinary ones, $30 for the VIP and $70 for the VVIP at officially recommended outlets. Koffi will share the stage with Zimdancehall star Winky D and fast rising Jah Signal alongside Sungura maestro, Alick Macheso and Dendera music prince Sulumani Chimbetu as well as top wheel-spinner DJ Iroq. The uncertainty over the show has made people develop cold feet as Davido’s cancellation of two shows in the country last year is still fresh in the minds of people.