 Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter GOVERNMENT has launched the 2018/2019 Presidential Cotton Inputs Support Scheme meant to boost cotton production. More than 400 000 households countrywide are expected to benefit from the scheme meant to empower families by boosting production. The Government this year decided to distribute inputs early so that farmers are able to plant with the early rains. Speaking at the launch of the scheme at Dibutibu in Mlagisa Village in Tsholotsho district, Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs Minister Ambassador Cain Mathema, said farmers should take advantage of the scheme to increase hectarage under cotton. “You will agree with me that that the distribution of farming inputs has started early this year because we want these inputs to be delivered to farmers before the start of the rains. This shows our Government’s commitment to support our farmers so that they increase production,” said Ambassador Cain Mathema. He said the Presidential inputs scheme was meant to not only empower families but also enhance food security. Ambassador Mathema said Agritex officers should ensure that farmers do not sell the inputs but use them to boost production. “The farmers should provide secure storage facilities for the inputs as they wait for the start of the rains. We do not want to see these inputs on the market but should be in the fields as soon as the rains start. Those that sell the inputs risk being arrested and prosecuted,” he said. Ambssador Mathema said he was impressed by the work done in Ward Four where most farmers are now into cotton farming. “We encourage more farmers from this disrict to grow cotton which guarantees farmers money as it is a cash crop,” he said. Meanwhile, Cottco took the opportunity to donate 100 bags of cement to Dibutibu Primary School which will be used to construct more structures for pupils and teachers. The company’s managing director, Mr Pious Manamike said the company will also pay school fees for four top pupils from each Form at Dibutibu Secondary School. Chief Mathuphula said the inputs will go a long way in boosting cotton production in the district. “I urge farmers to take advantage of this scheme that will enable us to produce more and get more money to improve our livilihoods,” said Chief Mathuphula. — @thamamoe