Vice President Chiwenga Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent VICE President Dr Constantino Chiwenga is expected to address Zanu-PF rallies in Bulawayo tomorrow and on Monday. Zanu-PF Bulawayo provincial secretary for administration Cde Elifasi Mashaba yesterday confirmed that the Vice-President will be in the city. “This is the reason why the VP is coming directly where the people are. The party has gone through an introspection period and we are now campaigning through the cells. We’re saying the party ebantwini/musangano kuvanhu. And this is what the VP is doing. He is coming to see the people in their cells,” said Cde Mashaba. He said today the party will conduct  road shows to drum up support for the VP’s rallies. Cde Mashaba said the Vice President will hold four rallies and the first one will be held at Nketa grounds, covering Bulawayo South, Nketa and Nkulumane constituencies. On the same day, Dr Chiwenga will also hold another rally in Cowdray Park in the new stands covering Luveve and Entumbane-Makhandeni constituencies. Cde Mashaba said the rallies will continue on Monday. “On Monday he will have another rally in Pumula at the open space near Pumula Hall. The people from Magwegwe constituency are also expected to attend. The VP will then proceed to Lobengula-Njube and Mpopoma constituencies and the rally for the two constituencies will be held at Lobengula grounds near Nkanyezi Primary School,” said Cde Mashaba. He challenged Bulawayo residents to come in their numbers at these rallies to hear for themselves Government’s development programmes for the city and beyond. Cde Mashaba who is contesting the Nketa National Assembly seat, said he will also be donating 40 computers to promote e-learning on Sunday. He said the computers will be donated to local libraries and on the same day they will launch the youth driving lessons empowerment project. Cde Mashaba said to spice up Sunday’s events, he has organised big screen for residents to watch the Soccer World Cup final pitting France and Croatia at the Nketa grounds. He urged residents to come in the numbers to watch the match. — @nqotshili