Cde Simon Khaya Moyo Richard Muponde, Plumtree Correspondent PEOPLE should be allowed to vote for candidates of their choice without coercion or intimidation for elections to be deemed free, fair and credible, Zanu-PF Secretary for Information and Publicity, Cde Simon Khaya Moyo, said yesterday. Addressing a Zanu-PF rally at Mlomwe area in Bulilima East constituency, Cde Khaya Moyo, who is also Senator for Bulilima-Mangwe, said peace should prevail even after the elections slated for July 30. He was drumming up support for the constituency’s Zanu-PF aspiring legislator, Cde Nqobizitha Mangaliso Ndlovu. “There are observers whom President Emmerson Mnangagwa called to assess these elections. We want to hear that the elections are peaceful, free, fair and credible,” Cde Khaya Moyo said. “We don’t want to hear that there’s any person who was assaulted. Let’s go and choose whom we want peacefully, without  intimidation or coercion. Vote knowing which party will make you develop and improve your lives”. He said President Mnangagwa has since the coming in of the new dispensation been preaching peace and people should heed his counsel. “President ED said let bygones be bygones. You know he said we want peace. In the past you could have been assaulted already, forced to vote. But it’s peaceful. Anyone who assaults another person, tell us; we will deal with that person,” Cde Khaya Moyo said. The new dispensation, he said, was a result of divine intervention to save Zimbabweans. “In November last year and with God’s grace we said to the old man (former President Mr Robert Mugabe), it’s time for you to rest now because you are living with a problem, a woman and those around her who appeared to be leading the country yet not in government. However, President ED is saying let’s respect the old man and not harass him and we should also respect the late Father Zimbabwe (Dr Joshua Nyongolo Nkomo),” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He said Zanu-PF has lined up development projects for Bulilima and Mangwe which were already being rolled out. “The party wants to rehabilitate all the major roads and have them tarred. The work has started. Secondly we need to build new dams and start new irrigation schemes. There was Moza irrigation scheme but where is it now? We will resuscitate the irrigation scheme,” said Cde Khaya Moyo. He was accompanied by the sitting legislator, Cde Mathias Siqoza Ndlovu and central committee member, Cde Richard Ndlovu among others. @richardmuponde