Mr Mark Mabhudhu Business Reporter AIM-listed Vast Resources has appointed Zimbabwe’s prominent and experienced diamond mining executive Mr Mark Mabhudhu to the board of the company’s local entity. The local entity, Vast Resources Zimbabwe owns Pickstone-Peerless, Giant and Eureka gold mines. Vast Resources chief executive officer Mr Andrew Prelea was quoted on the company’s website saying Mr Mabhudhu’s appointment comes at a time when they are moving to consolidate their presence in Zimbabwe on the back of improved political environment following the coming into power of the new Government in November last year. “The political amelioration in Zimbabwe over recent months has made us re-evaluate our activities in the country and we are now actively seeking new opportunities and exploring options through which to revive historic claims in order to build a significant presence in the region,” said Mr Prelea. “I am confident that Mabhudhu’s experience, network and influence will expedite this evaluation process as we look to expand our current mineralised footprint, comprising the Pickstone-Peerless, Giant and Eureka Gold Mines, to establish a significant presence in the Zimbabwean mining industry in the near term.” Mr Mabhudhu has over 25 years experience in the mining industry. “Of this, more than 22 years has been focused on diamond mining both in Zimbabwe and internationally, including 11 years with Debswana, the joint venture company between De Beers and the Government of Botswana. He holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in metallurgical engineering, a Masters in Business Administration, Master of Philosophy in Information and Knowledge Management. His recent positions include chief executive officer of the Zimbabwe Consolidated Diamond Company and chief executive officer and, prior to that, chief operating officer of Marange Resources. Vast Resources is a mining and resource development firm focused on the rapid advancement of high quality brownfield projects and recommencing production at previously producing mines in Romania. The company also has interests in a number of projects in Southern Africa including a controlling 25 percent interest in Pickstone-Peerless Gold Mine and a 23,75 percent economic interest in the Eureka Gold Mine both located in Zimbabwe.