Mr Basil Nyabadza, Mr Ashton Ndlovu and Dr Jeremy Hubert inspect some of the 10 000 holes prepared for the pecan nut plantation at Arda’s Balu Estate in Umguza, Matabeleland North, yesterday Nduduzo Tshuma, Political Editor THE Government has secured an investor to set up a 250 hectare pecan nut plantation, the biggest in the country, at Arda Balu Estate in Umguza district that will make Matabeleland the centre of production for the dedicated export crop. The investor, Dr Jeremy Hubert, has so far prepared 100 hectares for planting that will begin in a few days while the remaining 150 hectares will be expanded next year. The 100 hectares will be covered with 10 000 plants. “We intend to plant any day now, we are ready to move plants from around the country and import some plants,” said Dr Hubert who described their relationship with Arda as fantastic. “We are going to expand upon these 100 hectares to next year, right behind us there is another 100 hectares and behind there, there is another 50 hectares so by next year we should have 250 hectares of pecan nut plantation, one of the bigger plantations in the region and certainly the biggest in Zimbabwe. “The global market for the pecan nut has expanded dramatically in the last few years. Certainly in South Africa, the crop has really taken over, removing all sorts of traditional crops with farmers moving into pecans. There has been an explosion globally on the market and we are aiming for that.” Arda chairman Mr Basil Nyabadza, who visited the facility, said agriculture has been the biggest beneficiary of President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s “Zimbabwe is Open for Business” mantra. “As you know we have facets of agriculture, plantations, livestock, wildlife, horticulture, small grains and when you now get investors coming in to put money in plantations, that is confirmation that they have confidence in the future of our country especially the drive to bring value to our resources as an entity,” he said. “What we see here is the first establishment of the commercial farming of pecan nuts. Pecan nuts are a dedicated export crop, we now have to see that our initial investment must follow the issues of exports, we need to export as a nation.” Mr Nyabadza said there is a strong appetite for the off take of pecan nuts. “We want to establish a reference centre, a satellite unit which then brings the out-grower position within Matabeleland region,” he said. “You know the success story of tobacco in Mashonaland and Manicaland and parts of Midlands and Masvingo, we are saying this region must now take a clear position on production of pecan nuts for dedicated exports.” Mr Nyabadza said the pecan nut tree is a long term crop maturing after six to eight years and whose incremental value goes up to 100 years. “We are saying that this is a very important chapter in the history of Arda to see that we now revive plantations as a key segment of long term investment but most importantly to spread the risk and value throughout our respective regions throughout the country,” he said. “Matabeleland will now be the centre of pecan nuts production in the country bringing a dedicated crop for export. This becomes a centre of excellence, our students must come here and learn, we must now have visitors who come and teach us, we must cross pollinate with those leading nations that farm pecan nuts.” Mr Nyabadza said Zimbabwe will have a niche market because while, “some of our neighbours are non organic, we want to remain organic because we can command premium prices.” Meanwhile, at the same estate, Arda has partnered with local investor Mr Ashton Ndlovu who is running a massive livestock project. “This is a young Zimbabwean who came on board and accessed pastures under terms and conditions. Four years ago, he had plus or minus 120 herd of cattle but today, he is sitting on at least 500 cattle, plus or minus 300 goats and sheep,” said Mr Nyabadza. “That is progress, that is empowerment, this is what His Excellency President Mnangagwa is saying, Command Agriculture, Command Livestock, Command Fisheries are there to empower our people countrywide, we are saying as Zimbabweans, let’s heed that call.” Mr Nyabadza said Mr Ndlovu is now importing pedigree Boer goats from Namibia to come and change the nature of the herd in the region. He said Arda was ready to assist anyone who needs fusion of skills into the economy. Mr Ndlovu said in October 2014 when he got to the estate, he started with 100 heifers and four bulls. Presently, Mr Ndlovu said, they have eight bulls servicing a breeding herd of about 260.