President Mnangagwa Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent PRESIDENT Mnangagwa is taking e-learning to the marginalised San community in Tsholotsho, Matabeleland North in a bid to ensure that no one is left behind in the country’s modernisation thrust. President Mnangagwa is set to donate computers to newly constructed Mtshina Primary School in Mtshina at the heart of the San Community. Before he makes his donation, he has ordered the Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Cain Mathema to ensure that the school gets electricity. In an interview yesterday, Cde Mathema said he has already acted on President Mnangagwa’s instruction. “President Mnangagwa will donate computers to Mtshina Primary School. This is a new school which was opened at the beginning of the year. “It needs electricity so I have instructed the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) to connect it to power. After that, we will inform the President that everything has been sorted and he will make his donation. Obviously, we need to assess the classroom blocks because computers need to be kept in very secure places,” said Cde Mathema. He said the President consciously selected the marginalised San community as the country’s development agenda should be all encompassing. “It shows that he is a man of all people, he believes in Zimbabwe being diverse but united. He doesn’t discriminate on ethnic grounds. That’s what ED does. And once you promote computer learning you are already promoting sciences,” the Minister said. “Therefore the San children will be part of the future and the future of Zimbabwe is based on science and technology. So really, the President is doing an incredible job to make sure that every part of Zimbabwe is developed.” Cde Mathema said President Mnangagwa was a man of action and has set in motion projects that will improve people’s lives in Matabeleland North. He said the President is reviving projects that had long been neglected in the province such as the rehabilitation of the Bulawayo-Nkayi Road and construction of the Gwayi-Shangani Dam. Cde Mathema said construction works for the provincial hospital in Lupane will commence soon. He said in addition, the President is promoting commercial farming through Command Livestock. On Friday he handed over a herd of 1 444 cattle for the project. Cde Mathema said the new dispensation is delivering on promises and that shows the character of the President. @nqotshili