 11:05  -Voters queue to vote at Ndlovu Store polling station in Umguza. The station had the largest number of voters waiting to poll.  11:00 – Huge turnout at Dombo primary school. More voters are trickling in now in most rural polling centres compared to early hours.  10:58 – An elderly voter at Warren Park Constituency says picture quality on ballot papers for MPs is not clear so its taking the elderly some time to find their preferred candidates. 10:55 – BEITBRIDGE EAST: Independent canditate Mr Handsome Mbedzi says the voter turnout at most polling stations is impressive. 10:50 – Long queue at Burnside Garage, Bulawayo East where MDC Alliance spokesperson Professor Welshman Ncube is expected to cast his vote. 10:40 – At Ushewekunze tent polling station in Harare South Constituency, two men tried to jump the queue by pretending that one of them was so ill that he could not walk. The polling agents were however not hoodwinked.  10:25 – Zanu PF Bulawayo South candidate Cde Raj Modi joins the queue while he waits to cast his vote near Bellevue Shopping Complex.  10:15 - Crisis at Ward 6 Chegutu West as ballots papers have pictures of wrong candidates. Polling has been stopped. New ballots are said to be coming from Harare.  10:10 - Gwanda South constituency elections officer Ian Thwala says he’s happy with the progress thus far. He says all polling stations opened at 7 am. He says they are hoping that when voting closes at 7 pm they are hoping counting would be complete by 12 midnight. 10:05 – President Mnangagwa has cast his vote Sherwood Primary school. The President says the country is experiencing democracy never witnessed before. He says former president Mugabe is allowed to express his opinion as it’s his democratic right. President Mnangagwa was accompanied by family members, his children and daughter in law. He says he will continue to engage former President on regularly as a citizen of this country.  10:00 – Albert Nyathi has voted in Harare West.  09:55 – MDC Alliance leader, Advocate Nelson Chamisa has voted at Kuwadzana 2 Primary School in Kuwadzana East Constituency.  09:35 - Just next to the three polling stations at Matapi a family is mourning their love one and was parading a coffin police had to bring order  09:30 - No incidents of violence or any disturbance at ward 9 Victoria Falls open space polling station where there are three tents. MDC Alliance members last night threatened to disrupt process. People voting well and are excited. Few turned away for going to a wrong polling station. Binga District Elections Officer Mr Buligwamanu Bwawo Pinos says there is excitement in the district as voters report to various polling stations to cast their votes. 09:25 - Alice Nyathi, 75-year-old granny, says voting was smooth and was happy that the elderly where given first preference. 09:15 - At Kwayedza High (Highfield West) election agents from Zanu PF and MDC Alliance say some voters could not find their names in the voters roll. 09:12 – Zanu-PF aspiring member of Parliament for Gokwe Central, Cde Victor Matemadanda (second from last) patiently waits in a long queue for his turn to cast his vote. There are Eight candidates eying the constituency including incumbent Mrs Dorothy Mhangami who is contesting as an independent this time around after being expelled from Zanu-PF.  09:10 - Only seven voters have cast their votes at Hlangabeza High School in Nkayi, since the station opened at 7AM. 09:05 - At Highlands Primary School polling station there are people who don’t know where they should vote. The polling agents are assisting them to get to the their designated polling stations. Meanwhile, two people have been turned away at Umzingwane Rural District Council ward 17 in Esigodini for coming to the wrong polling station. 09:00 - A voter being shown how to fold the ballot at ward 3 open space polling station Victoria falls  08:55 - People casting their votes at Umzingwane Rural District Council ward 17 in Esigodini where Zanu PF candidate Retired Brigadier General Levi Mayihlome is battling it out with nine other candidates. By 8AM about 18 people had casted their  votes.  08:50 – President Mnangagwa has an Election Day message for Zimbabwe… “On Election Day, let us vote with peace in our hearts. Let us be respectful, tolerant and love one another. Let us remember that no matter who we support, we are all brothers and sisters. We are one people, with one dream and one destiny. We will sink or swim together.” President ED Mnangagwa 08:42 – By 8AM no voter had shown up at the District Administrator’s Complex tent in Lupane West. 314 voters are expected to cast their votes at the polling station.  0840 - Aspiring Zanu-PF candidate for Gokwe Central Cde Victor Matemadanda arrives at Diptank  polling station in Sesame area.  08:33 - People’s Rainbow Coalition  candidate for the Chinhoyi constituency House of Assembly Engineer Leslie Mhangwa after casting his ballot at Chaedza primary school polling station.  08:31 - By 8AM few voters have turned up at Nkayi Centre.  08:30 – Voters at Milton Primary School, Ward 1, Bulawayo. As at 07:44AM about 32 people had cast their votes.  Voting started at 7AM across the country as Zimbabwe goes to the harmonised polls without former President, Mr Robert Mugabe standing for office. The elections are also the first without the late Morgan Tsvangirai since the emergence of the MDC. 