Retired Colonel George Nare Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Reporter ZANU-PF director in the Commissariat, Retired Colonel George Nare, has called on youths to be at the forefront of drumming up support for the party ahead of the July 30 harmonised elections. Addressing party supporters at Nkulumane suburb in Bulawayo yesterday, Rtd Col Nare said youths are the country’s future and should therefore play an active role in safeguarding their future by voting for Zanu-PF and its leader President Emmerson Mnangagwa. “Our President Cde Emmerson Mnangagwa is a tried and tested leader unlike some thugs in the opposition. It is therefore prudent for our youths to play a leading role to ensure that we win the elections resoundingly. The youths are our future and we want them to have a better future, which is only possible through voting for Zanu-PF,” he said. Rtd Col Nare urged Zanu-PF supporters to desist from violence as the country heads to the elections. “Zanu-PF is our party and if we love it we should work for it and that is the spirit. We should shun violence and we are saying in as much as every Zimbabwean is free to exercise their constitutional right of freedom of association that should be done within the confines of the law,” he said. Rtd Col Nare took a swipe at the MDC Alliance for threatening to demonstrate against the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) and conducting vigils at their offices until July 30 to push for the fulfilment of its demands, saying it was a violation of the law. “Ironically, we have people in the opposition who are lawyers but they are violating the laws of the country. They are saying they will also announce election results yet the law says it is the prerogative of Zimbabwe Electoral Commission to do so and that is a clear violation of the law. They are saying they want to conduct vigils at Zec offices and make life difficult for the officials to work and again that is illegal because Zec is an independent body that is not answerable to anyone,” he said. Rtd Col Nare also slammed the MDC Alliance’s tendency of disrespecting women and Zec officials, saying it is unacceptable and disgusting. “When we go to the polls we must first scrutinize the kind of leaders that we want to elect. We have to elect good leaders who are responsible not thugs who will create problems for us once elected. When it comes to choosing leaders we don’t have to take chances. We need to elect tried and tested leaders like Cde Mnangagwa with a traceable history of the liberation struggle,” he said. Rtd Col Nare said President Mnangagwa is a listening and forgiving leader who holds no grudges against his enemies. “Our President is a leader who is result oriented and right now he has introduced the Zimbabwe is open for business mantra, which has seen an increase in the number of investors keen on investing in our country. He is also in the process of re-engaging countries which were hostile to us under the previous dispensation and imposed sanctions,” he said. Rtd Col Nare said Zanu-PF under the leadership of former President Mr Robert Mugabe had lost the plot with corruption and looting being the order of the day. He said the previous regime under the leadership of Mr Mugabe used illegal sanctions as a scapegoat for mismanaging the country’s economy and fuelling corruption. “Indeed sanctions had a bearing on the country’s economy but the collapse of the country’s economy was a direct result of corruption and poor governance,” Rtd Col Nare said. Turning to Operation Restore Legacy, Rtd Col Nare said the Zimbabwe Defence Forces launched the campaign after realising that Zanu-PF had turned against the aspirations of the people. He said President Mnangagwa was correcting the wrongs that Mr Mugabe had made. Rtd Col Nare said under the new dispensation, the Government is committed to serving the interests of its people He said President Mnangagwa is at the forefront of implementing devolution.  Rtd Col Nare urged Zimbabweans to unite regardless of political and tribal differences. “We are one Zimbabwe and it is important for us to unite and work together as one people despite political differences,” he said. Speaking during the same event, the Minister of State for Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Cde Angeline Masuku said under the new dispensation, the Government has come up with a comprehensive plan to transform the economy and revive industries. “Bulawayo has been declared a Special Economic Zone by His Excellency, President Mnangagwa and we are witnessing a significant change in every facet of the economy. Already some factories which were closed have reopened and we expect more companies to open,” she said. — @mashnets