Koffi Olomide (centre) in Zambia Controversial Congolese rhumba star Koffi Olomide who had reportedly been barred from performing in Zambia earlier, landed in Lusaka on Wednesday for a series of shows in that country. On arrival in Lusaka past midnight aboard a Kenyan Airways flight, Olomide toured Zambia’s Presidential site in the morning and paid tribute to the three late presidents of Zambia describing them as great men who contributed a lot to the nation. He laid wreaths at the graves of the three former presidents namely Frederick Chiluba, Michael Sata and Levy Mwanawasa at Embassy Park. The visiting Congolese musician said Zambia is what it is today because of the three great leaders. Later he signed a visitor’s book at Embassy Park. “Respect forever for three great men and former presidents of Zambia,” signed Koffi. And then the bigger question was put to him: “What do you have to say about the allegations you are facing?” He responded saying said he will choose silence than respond to allegations surrounding his life. “Silence, silence, silence,” he responded and walked away. In 2016, Olomide was deported from Kenya following a public outcry over video footage of him assaulting a woman dancer. After the Kenya debacle, Olomide’s show in Lusaka was cancelled after public pressure. But still in Lusaka, he in January 2013, assaulted a Zambian photojournalist and had to flee across the border to avoid arrest. Although he apologised, the photojournalist was still seeking justice. Recently, a state daily, The Times of Zambia, quoted French ambassador Sylvain Berger saying Olomide was facing a number of charges both in Zambia and France. The rhumba maestro is reportedly wanted on suspicion of sexually assaulting dancers, kidnapping and employing them in France without a permit and facilitating their entry and illegal stay. But even at home, the 62-year-old bad boy is never far from controversies. He was in August 2012 given a three-month suspended prison sentence for assaulting his producer. The sentence followed his arrest after fracas at a hotel in Kinshasa. Earlier in 2001, security personnel in Kinshasa dragged Olomide out of his Mercedes Benz Compressor and frog-marched him in public after he had defied being flagged down. Notwithstanding his “soiled” image, Olomide who was scheduled to perform in Lusaka yesterday will be in Kitwe tonight. His appearance in Zambia has apparently rattled some feathers in the Southern African nation of 15 million. “The Zambia Police conducted a search on the 24/7 INTERPOL system which has revealed that there is no International Warrant of arrest (red alert notice) in respect of Antoine Christopher Agbepa Mumba Alias Koffi Olomide, indicating that he is wanted for any criminal offence in any country,” said police spokesperson Esther Katongo. Olomide’s lawyers Makebi Zulu advocates said in a statement issued in Lusaka: “…the Koffi Olomide function has reached advanced stages in terms of organising and any attempt to stop the same will be a direct assault on their clients’ quest to earn a livelihood and promote tourism.” The lawyers stated that their clients (East Point Disco Tec Limited and Remarkable Limited) had placed reliance and invested over a million kwacha in the Koffi Olomide shows. The promoter claimed to have already paid Olomide’s performance fees as well as taking care of all the logistics ahead of the show set for Government Complex banquet hall in Lusaka. Koffi’s appearance in Zambia has excited local music promoters Sound Blaze Productions who will be bringing him to Harare next Friday as news that he would be banned from entering Zambia had affected the marketing of their show. — The Citizen/Daily Nation