 ANGOLA became the first team to secure a semi-final place at the 2018 Cosafa Under-17 Championships in Mauritius yesterday after a thumping Group C victory over eSwatini. Angola ensured they would finish top of the pool with a 4-0 massacre of the Swazis, with Zito Luvumbo grabbing a brace. The side also hit the back of the net through Domingos Andrade and Jose Cabingano, as they moved into pole position in the pool with a full haul of six points from their opening two games. Angola cannot be overhauled at the top as the only sides which could finish level with them on points are one of Malawi or eSwatini, who meet in their final group match, but as Angola have already beaten both, they would be top on head-to-head standings. Earlier, Malawi sent Zimbabwe packing from the tournament with a 5-0 victory that underlined their quality. Zimbabwe, so dominant in Cosafa football in the past, continued their battles at Under-17 level, as their two losses in 2018 means they cannot qualify for the semi-finals. Patrick Mwaungulu scored twice and there were also goals for Tatenda Mbalaka, Francis Mtoso and Emmanuel Mitole as Malawi romped to victory. The Malawians, who finished third in their last two visits to the tournament, could yet finish as the best runner-up and book a semi-final place with a big win over eSwatini, who are also not yet out of contention. Groups A and B come to a conclusion today when the final round of matches are played concurrently. Group A leaders Botswana will need just a draw against Namibia at the Stade Anjalay to book their place in the semi-finals, but they could also qualify as the best second-placed team even with a defeat. As the final standings are decided on the head-to-head basis, a win for Namibia would see them leap-frog Botswana into first place. But if Mauritius beat Seychelles at the Stade St Francois Xavier in a fixture that kicks-off at the same time, that result, coupled with a Namibia win, would see all three sides finish on six points. That would create a mini-league involving only matches played between those three sides to decide the winner. Seychelles have already been ousted from the competition, but will be playing for pride. Group B comes to a head when South Africa and Zambia clash at the Stade St Francois Xavier. A draw will be enough to see South Africa finish above the defending champions and take top spot in the pool, at the same time likely ousting Zambia from the competition unless their five points would be good enough for the best runner-up spot. At the same time, Lesotho and Mozambique clash, but will be playing for pride. Yesterday’s results Group C: Malawi 5 (Patrick Mwaungulu 2, Tatenda Mbalaka, Francis Mtoso, Emmanuel Mitole) Zimbabwe 0; Angola 4 (Zito Luvumbo 2, Domingos Andrade, Jose Cabingano) Swaziland 0 Today’s Fixtures Namibia v Botswana; Seychelles v Mauritius; Lesotho v Mozambique; South Africa v Zambia Standings *Standings are decided on a head-to-head basis in the first instance Group A P    W    D    L    GF    GA    Pts Botswana    2    2    0    0    3    1    6 Mauritius    2    1    0    1    1    1    3 Namibia    2    1    0    1    8    4    3 Seychelles    2    0    0    2    4    10    0 Group B P    W    D    L    GF    GA    Pts South Africa    2    1    1    0    4    1    4 Zambia    2    1    1    0    1    0    4 Lesotho    2    0    1    1    0    1    1 Mozambique    2    0    1    1    1    4    1 Group C P    W    D    L    GF    GA    Pts Angola    2    2    0    0    5    0    6 Swaziland    2    1    0    1    3    6    3 Malawi     2    1    0    1    5    1    3 Zimbabwe    2    0    0    2    2    8    0 Tournament stats Matches Played: 12 Goals scored: 37 Biggest victory: Namibia 8 Seychelles 3 (Group A, July 19) Most goals in a game: 11 — Namibia 8 Seychelles 3 (Group A, July 19) Top scorers 4 — Prins Tjiueza (Namibia) 3 — Tyrin George (Namibia) 2 — Zito Luvumbo (Angola), Oageng Maphorisa (Botswana), Patrick Mwaungulu (Malawi), Rino Pauline (Seychelles), Bandile Shabangu (Swaziland) 1- Afandi Aboudou (Seychelles), Domingos Andrade (Angola), Mthokozisi Balakasi (South Africa), Pablo Bechardas (Mozambique), John Bonomali (Zimbabwe), Thando Buthelezi (South Africa), Jose Cabingano (Angola), Langelihle Dlamini (Swaziland), Edmar Kamatuka (Namibia), Jeremy Kawoa (Mauritius), Tebogo Kopelang (Botswana), Tatenda Mbalaka (Malawi), Emmanuel Mitole (Malawi), Francis Mtoso (Malawi), Motlhalosi Nare (South Africa), Netinho (Angola), Thandolwenkosi Ngwenya (Zimbabwe), Benson Simwanda (Zambia), Bongolwethu Siyasi (South Africa), Jarrel Suzette (Seychelles). — Cosafa.