 Thandeka Moyo, Health Reporter ABOUT 600 women are waiting for a chance to have their fistulas fixed amid reports that the only clinic offering the service in the country helps about a tenth of that number in three months. A fistula is a hole between the birth canal and the bladder or rectum caused by prolonged labour without timely access to emergency obstetric care, notably a caesarean section. The condition leaves women leaking urine, faeces or both and over time, it leads to chronic medical problems. According to the Ministry of Health and Child Care, the centre established in partnership with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) to perform the surgery is overwhelmed. The director of family health in the Ministry Dr Bernard Madzima said the centre has helped 397 women since it was opened in 2015.  He said a second clinic was set to open before the end of the year. “We are currently having one centre at the moment and our backlog is around 600 women who are in need of the service. We are renovating at the United Bulawayo Hospitals so that it can cater for women from the southern region,” said Dr Madzima. He said renovations were at an advanced stage and the service would be accessible by the end of 2018. “We have trained doctors at UBH to do the surgery and we already have the equipment to start the surgery. The establishment of the clinic will help ease the burden we have and cater for women from Bulawayo, Midlands, Masvingo, Matabeleland North and South provinces,” added Dr Madzima. Chinhoyi Provincial Hospital, Medical Superintendent, Dr Collet Mawire recently said the hospital had witnessed an increase in the number of women who are registering for fistula repair surgery. “The number of women registering for the surgery is increasing and we are glad that the surgeries that are being conducted here are changing women’s social lives for the better,” said Dr Mawire. UNFPA says obstetric fistula occurs mostly among women and girls living in extreme poverty, especially those living far from medical services. “Since the programme began in 2015 we are very happy that we have managed to restore the dignity of at least 397 women who are now living normal lives today,” said Dr Esther Muia, UNFPA country representative. “More, however still needs to be done to ensure that these facilities are easily accessible to women suffering from this condition regardless of their location.” Women and girls with fistula are unable to work; many are abandoned by their husbands, families, and ostracised by their communities driving them further into poverty. @thamamoe