Khama Billiat KAIZER Chiefs football manager Bobby Motaung has made it clear Amakhosi acted above board in prying Khama Billiat away from Mamelodi Sundowns. Chiefs looked to be a step off the pace when their big three rivals started making headlines in the transfer market in the off-season. Orlando Pirates announced nine signings in June, bringing in the likes of Brilliant Khuzwayo, Vincent Pule, Ben Motshwari and Asavela Mbekile, while Sundowns won the race for Andile Jali’s signature last month to go with the acquisitions of Toni Silva and Jose Ali Meza. Chiefs responded with the high-profile capture of Billiat from Downs, who offered the in-demand Zimbabwean a contract extension prior to his deal expiring at Chloorkop. The Glamour Boys have also recruited Andriamirado Andrianarimanana, Virgil Vries and Letlhogonolo Mirwa ahead of 2018/19, but are still looking for a head coach following Steve Komphela’s resignation in April. “When people are talking about teams buying nine and 10 players, Sundowns announcing Jali and everything, we had our plan and we stuck to it, and we will always do that,” Motaung said. “It’s like the coach issue, we are not rushing. Black Leopards announced their technical director, it is their plan. We can’t just sign a technical director because of Leopards, it is their plan.” Motaung is especially pleased with the arrival of Billiat at Naturena. “People love him, he is a star,” Motaung said. “I didn’t steal him from anybody. Let’s clear up this factor also. We respect club protocols. Billiat was going overseas; he was a free agent, a free player fortunately. He is a talented player and a star. He had to make his choice and a decision. “We are not doing this to spite or compete with other clubs. He is a quality player, no one was going to say no and I don’t think we did this to spite anybody. “We respect Sundowns and their protocols, but the boy was going anywhere. He might have gone to Arrows, Chippa or the Arab countries. Fortunately we had the upper hand to sign him. “He is enjoying himself and is happy. We don’t buy players to spy on other clubs, it can hurt you. He is coming to enjoy his game in a good environment and a good family. I think he fits in at the club.” — kickOff.