Voters queue to cast their ballots at a polling station in Cowdray Park, Bulawayo, yesterday Chronicle Reporters ZIMBABWEANS flocked to polling stations across the country yesterday in a historic poll marked by a high voter turnout and peace following the opening of the democratic space by President Mnangagwa. In Bulawayo province where some people were already queueing before polling stations had even opened at 7AM, voting went on smoothly, with voters expressing profound joy for the conducive environment under which they voted. In Bulawayo South, Nkulumane and Nketa constituencies voters exercised their right to vote freely. In Nketa, the process was very slow in the morning but it picked up after 2PM. The only confusion arose when a number of voters went to the wrong polling stations and had to be redirected to the right ones. More than 20 500 had voted in Nketa alone by around 5PM. Zanu-PF Nketa candidate, who is also the party’s Bulawayo provincial secretary for administration Cde Elifasi Mashaba, said the party was satisfied with the high voter turnout in the province. “The voter turnout was very, very good. It was actually high all over. We expect 60 to 70 percent voter turnout. And obviously the election environment was very free, very comfortable to everybody due to the new dispensation that was brought in by President Mnangagwa,” said Cde Mashaba. He said the party was confident of romping to victory. In Bulawayo East, MDC Alliance spokesperson Professor Welshman Ncube as well as founding MDC member Mr David Coltart, voted at Burnside Garage. Prof Ncube said the voting process went well but expressed concern that people were spending too much time in queues. “There’re two polling stations here but the queues are still very, very long. It shouldn’t take this long to cast your vote,” he said. In Entumbane/Emakhandeni the voting period was extended at Entumbane Hall as about 60 people were still queueing after 7PM. At Mtshingwe Primary School, ward 11 in Emakhandeni, voting went on smoothly with queues having been cleared by around 4PM. In Bulawayo Central, Zanu-PF Politburo member Dr Joshua Malinga said his vote was his secret, but was confident that those he had voted for would win. Speaking after casting her vote at Stanley Hall in Makokoba, Bulawayo, MDC-T presidential candidate Dr Thokozani Khupe said she was confident of victory and was looking forward to delivering on her election promises. “I’m 100 percent confident of victory because I’ve spoken to the people, I’ve been to where they are and asked them to vote for me and I truly believe they will vote for me,” she said. She however said she was receiving reports that the process was very slow in some areas. Dr Khupe said if she wins, under her presidency Zimbabweans were going to be given equal opportunities. “People don’t have jobs, they don’t have food, they don’t have many basic things and it’s because of a centralised economy. This is not allowing people to get equal opportunities. We’re going to be going for provincial economies where things are going to be done at provincial level,” said Dr Khupe. In Matabeleland North, the voting process was conducted smoothly across Tsholotsho District in both constituencies, North and South. There was a high turn out of voters from midmorning up to afternoon with the numbers dwindling as the day progressed. There was excitement as both young and old participated in the most peaceful plebiscite. Scores of people from the San community in Mgodimasili area also turned out. In Tsholotsho South, Zanu-PF candidate, Cde Zenzo Sibanda is battling it out with 10 opponents. In Tsholotsho North, former MDC-T MP Mrs Roselyn Nkomo, now under PRC banner is wrestling with 10 candidates who include Cde Sibangumuzi Khumalo of Zanu-PF. In Lupane, Matabeleland North provincial elections officer Mr Mark Ndlovu said elections had run smoothly except for an incident that saw a man being arrested in Hwange after he attempted to bar a resident from voting. He said police were yet to furnish him with more details as the case is under investigation. In Hwange East, 14 980 people cast their votes out of 21 378 registered to participate in this year’s harmonised elections. District elections officer Mr William Muleya said the voting process went on smoothly. In Matabeleland North’s Umguza constituency voting went well with its long-time MP who is also Zanu-PF’s Secretary for Administration Dr Obert Mpofu kissing goodbye to the National Assembly seat as he sets his eye on the Senate. Voting went well in the constituency characterised by short queues. Thousands of people also turned out in Binga, Matabeleland North, to cast their votes in yesterday’s harmonised elections. The voting was largely a morning affair with polling stations buzzing with people waiting for their turn to back their chosen candidates. By lunch hour, most voters had cast their ballots, leaving only a few areas. Binga District Elections Officer Mr Buligwamanu Bwawo Pinos said voting had been like a friendly match as voters interacted with each other in a cordial manner. In an interview after casting his vote at Binga Primary School, Zanu-PF’s Cde Wellington Tagarira said he was confident that his party would end the MDC-T stranglehold on the district divided into two constituencies, Binga North and Binga South. “I am confident that President Mnangagwa is romping to victory. Here in Binga for many years the people have been voting for the opposition but this time we are confident of turning the tables,” he said. The environment was peaceful with candidates interviewed expressing satisfaction with the serene atmosphere. People in Victoria Falls and surrounding rural areas in Monde, Sizinda, Chisuma, Jambezi and Matetsi which make up Hwange West constituency, voted well. When polling stations opened in the morning, there were already long winding queues of people waiting to cast their vote. Polling stations closed at 7PM and the long queues that characterised the period 7AM to 12 noon had disappeared as only a few people were still visiting the polling stations. A quick check showed that none were denied the opportunity to vote as by 7PM majority had voted. Counting immediately started although no consolidated results could be obtained in the evening. Presiding officers at different polling stations that were visited said they were overwhelmed by numbers in the morning while in the afternoon they were relaxed as a few people were turning up. In Matabeleland South, the voting process in Beitbridge West ended on a peaceful note with a huge turnout in all 48 polling stations in the constituency. The district elections officer Mr Sibangani Ndlovu said the voting was peaceful. Selected voters who spoke to The Chronicle soon after casting their votes described the post poll as historic. “I exercised my constitutional right am happy everything went well. These polls are historic in that for the first time there was no inter-party violence. The Zec officials were very helpful and I can confidently say everything was smooth,” said Mr Naison Ndou of Zezani. In Bulima/Matobo voting started promptly at 7AM in all areas as ballot papers were all in place together with the required officers. Women constituted the bulk of the voters. Presiding officers noted that at most polling stations, elderly men and women were the highest group that turned out for the elections. Youths were slow to turn out. Ms Nomusa Majaha from Makhuba area in Bulilima constituency said many youths were out of the country. “Many of our peers are in South Africa seeking jobs. A few came to vote so you find the homesteads have mostly ogogo and okhulu who are taking care of young grandchildren,” she said. The election process progressed well throughout the day in various polling stations in Gwanda Central. The constituency’s chief elections officer, Mr Ronnie Sibanda said all 62 polling stations opened at 7AM. Hundreds in Matopo North and Matopo South had to be assisted to vote as the ballot papers were alleged to be not clear enough. Many voters especially the elderly had to be assisted to vote. A total of 115 voters at St Anna’s Primary School had to be assisted to vote as they could not see clearly their desired candidate. “I could not see my candidate because the pictures were not even clear. I got confused because the font was small so I had to ask to be assisted,” said Gogo Mary Moyo. She, however, said she faced no problems when she was assisted.