 It’s that time of the year again when thousands of South Africans showcase their talents (or lack thereof) to the world in hopes of being the next Idols SA winner. Idols SA season 14 premiered on Mzansi Magic (DStv channel 161) on Sunday packed with drama, fashion, tears, triumphs and unforgettable moments. This season promises to change the game, taking entertainment to another notch, from bringing dreams to a reality, showcasing singing talent accompanied by entertaining wooden mic moments to the emotional journey to stardom and so much more. It would not be a great season without the infamous judges like Unathi tearing up. The colourful “Whoo Shem” Somgaga with his hilarious and extra personality returns to shape and inspire some of Season 14’s Idol wannabes. Lastly, Randall returns to bring about a different sort of subtle entertainment that only those with the tuneful ear will understand. Who better to offer his shoulder for comfort than host Proverb. He still has the tough role to play as a hero that consoles Idols hopefuls and congratulates the ones that make it to another round. South Africa’s most popular reality singing show kicked off auditions phase in Kwazulu-Natal at North Beach Amphitheatre. In the past years Durban contestants have always come in large numbers to showcase their talent. This year’s audition was no different. Musa Sukwene, the Idols SA Season 9 winner filled a seat on the panel as a guest judge. The singing competition has churned out stars like Heinz Winckler, Khaya Mthethwa and Sukwene with runners-up like Zamajobe, Shekinah, Amanda Black and Lloyd Cele carving out brilliant careers for themselves after being booted out. While some are excited to see the show return, especially to see Wooden Mic contestants who cannot sing to save their lives, others are feeling, shall we say, meh! Also, there’s a new drama in town and it looks like Twitter has already given it the stamp of approval. The new drama that replaces Abomama Bomthandazo which was a hit among TV audiences also started on Sunday night. The Herd revolves around Bhekisizwe Mthethwa (Sello Maake Ka-Ncube) and his family, which features a wife who is a witch named MaMngadi (Winnie Ntshaba). The first episode topped the trend list with many applauding the cast and crew for a top notch production. There were a few critics though with some saying it was similar to an old drama titled Mopheme, but fans are willing to give it a chance. — Online