Cde Victor Matemadanda Freedom Mupanedemo in Gokwe Zanu-PF secretary for war veterans Cde Victor Matemadanda yesterday said former president Mr Robert Mugabe threw MDC Alliance leader Mr Nelson Chamisa into the political dustbin by attempting to endorse the former students’ leader in yesterday’s watershed elections. Mr Mugabe held a press conference on the eve of the elections at his Blue Roof mansion in Harare where he sided with Mr Chamisa, while indicating that he would not be voting for the ruling party. In an interview soon after casting his vote yesterday, Cde Matemadanda, who is eyeing the Gokwe Central constituency, said Mr Chamisa had proved beyond doubt that he was a political coward who could not be trusted in taking the country forward. He said Mr Chamisa was one of the top MDC officials who joined Zimbabweans who marched enmass to demonstrate against the former president, but was now in bed with the same Mr Mugabe. “What this Chamisa-Mugabe pact shows is the hypocrisy that Mr Chamisa is,” said Cde Matemadanda. “He is not a politician, but a coward who has betrayed the whole nation by attempting to revert them to the old tormenting times. “He is the one who was at the forefront of calling for Mugabe to quit and when we marched he was given the platform to speak against Mugabe and he denounced the same person he is courting this time. What he should know is that Zimbabweans are not fools.” Cde Matemadanda said Zimbabweans turned out in their numbers to put a final nail on Mr Mugabe and Mr Chamisa’s political coffins. “Zimbabweans have spoken and Mr Chamisa and Mugabe are history, they will know their fate soon,” he said. “Chamisa was disguising as a politician all along only to prove his colours on the final day that he was working in cohorts with Mr Mugabe.” Cde Matemadanda, who commended Zimbabweans for voting peacefully, said he was confident he will romp to victory. “The numbers (of people who cast their vote) are awesome people voted peacefully and here in Gokwe we are confident we will have a clean sweep,” he said. Cde Matemadanda is battling out with seven other contestants who include the outgoing MP Mrs Dorothy Mhangami, who is contesting as an independent, Mr Lasias Mutegwi of MDC Alliance, Mr Johnson Chawatama of CODE party, Mr Elijah Tembo (NPF), Mr Chipa Mushe (Independent) and Mr Ranganai Magombedze of People’s Rainbow Coalition party. Meanwhile, Chief Njelele of Gokwe has commended Zimbabweans for casting their vote in a peaceful manner. He said the voting process was smooth and peaceful throughout Gokwe. “I cast my vote at Mapfumo polling station and the process was very smooth,” said Chief Njelele. “It was peaceful throughout, we need to commend the people of Zimbabwe for showing maturity.”