Showbiz Reporter The Real Housewives of Johannesburg is set to debut on 1Magic (DStv channel 103) next Friday at 9PM. Viewers will be privy to the lives of the glamorous wealthy Johannesburg women and take a tour of their wardrobes while getting VIP access to their lavish parties from the comfort of their living rooms. “We let you in on the mostly private lives of the ladies with the biggest handbag and stilettos collections in town. “The reality series documents the highs and lows of the six fiery affluent characters as they let Mzansi into their lives – from their luxurious homes to their prestigious family life,” 1Magic said in a statement. At the centre of The Real Housewives of Johannesburg is Madame Evodia Mogase; a warm, talkative, straight talker originally from Soweto. She started off as a teacher then owned a catering business and is today a vegetation expert. Evodia joins the show with her daughter Mercy Mogase. The bubbly health fanatic studied mechanical engineering and later joined herbal life as an ambassador and motivational speaker. Viewers will also be introduced to a warm and charming beauty entrepreneur who owns a spa, Brinnette Seopela. She finds her happy ending at the heart of this series and is the glue that holds the Housewives together. Former Miss Botswana 2nd princess, Naledi Willers is also revealed as a wife and law student with a strong presence as she leaves no stone unturned and speaks her mind. Alongside these interesting ladies on the move is a former lawyer turned businesswoman with ambitions of becoming a superstar, Christall Kay. Originally from Durban, Christall has walked the runway as a model and bagged a couple of commercials to prepare for a career as a singer. Lastly is Busisiwe Ter Mors also known as Lendy. She is a keen golfer born in South Africa, but raised in England. She is a mother of two with enough time to enjoy the joys of being a housewife, from living an affluent lifestyle to enjoying simple get-togethers hosting her friends and family. “Friday viewing is sure going to be interesting as we follow the ladies living the life that many dream of. Viewers will certainly fall in love with their personalities, their passions, aspirations and their daily lives,” added 1Magic.