Nhlanhla Dube Descent Dube, Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS embarked on a #StreetFanInterface on Wednesday interacting with fans on how they can stage a violence- free Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match against struggling Harare giants Dynamos on August 5 at Barbourfields Stadium. Highlanders’ coach Madinda Ndlovu said the interface was a noble idea since the objective was to boost morale among the club’s stakeholders. “The timing was perfect considering our next match is against Dynamos and it is one of the most important games for the Highlanders’ family. Response from the fans has been positive, as the whole idea was to try and come up with something unique for our fans,” said Ndlovu. Club chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube said the goal was to provide fans with a platform to identify with their heroes. “We will continue with these kind of programmes, which give our fans one-on-one conversations with our technical staff and players. For example, on Saturday our fans will get an opportunity to interact with the players and coach courtesy of (principal sponsor) NetOne,” Dube said. Those interviewed highlighted the importance of avoiding engaging in violence and other anti-social behaviours during games since this hits Highlanders’ bottom line. A supporter calling herself uMadawu weBosso said security must ensure that no weapons and alcohol are allowed inside the stadium. “Our team can lose a lot of money as a result of allowing emotions to rule us. In our associations we are being taught not to use anything that will cause disturbance during and after a match,” she said. “Come rain or thunder we are going to beat Dynamos. It will be a perfect time to face them at home when they are fighting  relegation and it will be nice to add salt to their wound”. The fans also said they would fill Barbourfields Stadium to create an intimidating atmosphere for the Dynamos players, who are low on confidence following indifferent performances since the beginning of the season. So low on confidence are Dynamos that a draw is celebrated as an achievement by their increasingly demoralised followers. — @DecoDecent2