Minister July Moyo Michael Magoronga, Midlands Correspondent LOCAL Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister Cde July Moyo has urged council officials to shun corruption as expected by President Mnangagwa. Addressing town clerks, mayors and invited guests during the official opening of the Gokwe Town House in the town on Monday, Cde Moyo said the levels of corruption within councils were worrying and it was high time Government moved in swiftly to curb the graft. He said the end was in sight in the fight against corruption, especially regarding land barons and council officials who overcharge for council stands. “We are not going to stop the fight against corruption. Let us name and shame land barons because they compromise the quality of service delivery,” Cde Moyo said. He said President Mnangagwa does not tolerate corruption, whether by council officials, management or any section of the economy. “Our President does not tolerate corruption by anyone. If you want to move along with him in the new political dispensation, I urge you all to shun corruption and do things accordingly. Stay away from corruption and survive,” Cde Moyo said. He said the Office of the President was now mandated to solely handle corruption cases. “All corruption cases are now being handled by his office directly. Of course the Judiciary is there but they will simply refer you to his office and I tell you there will be no mercy,” said Cde Moyo. He urged the local authorities to charge normal and realistic prices for stands and avoid fleecing ratepayers. “Prices for stands should be realistic and affordable. They should also vary according to places not that the stands cost the same in Gokwe and in Harare. They should vary according to size and location,” Cde Moyo said. He urged councils to undertake construction of high rise buildings to avoid overcharging of land. Gokwe Town Secretary Ms Melania Mandeya said the 25-roomed town house was built at a cost of $900 000 and took six years to complete.