Business Reporter A GROUP of seven college students from Bulawayo have set up a business consultancy company, Mutate Business Centre. Mr Thamsanqa Moyo (20), a film and television production student at the College of Creative Arts, is the leader of the group. He told Business Chronicle the company was an initiative by students to contribute to the development of the country’s economy and help create jobs. Mr Moyo believes the young company, if given adequate support and start-up financing, has the capacity to transform business operations by bringing new ideas and solving some of the challenges. “We are a group of seven college students who have set up a service company called Mutate Business Centre. We came up with the idea, which was meant to contribute in reforming our country’s economy, especially creating employment, improving standards of living of the people and creating an atmosphere that is good for entrepreneurship,” he said. The group has already drafted a project proposal, a copy of which was shown to the Chronicle, detailing how it plans to implement its business model. Mr Moyo, however, said their main challenge was lack of access to finance to operationalise the business. He said getting funding was a mammoth task in Zimbabwe as finance houses require collateral, which they do not have. “I have come across people with different business ideas but did not have collateral to secure loans to set up business. Some needed advice on how to pursue their vision. So I teamed up with six others and we came up with a business plan hence the formation of Mutate,” said Mr Moyo. Once operational the company will provide services like business consultancy, entrepreneurship coaching, marketing and advertising as well as entertainment and recreational programmes among others. “Our long-term goal is to provide high quality business services like consultancy, planning and evaluation advice, business investment, investment opportunities, property management and development, project management and planning,” said Mr Moyo. He appealed to well-wishers to assist in funding their company. “We are still new in the industry and we need a bit of help to grow our company. Anyone who is willing to help with money or furniture or any form of help may contact me on 0776 066 326 or send an email thamu2451@gmal.com,” said Mr Moyo. Despite the recognition that Small and Medium Enterprises contribute significantly to the country’s economy, major enterprise drivers continue to face challenges, mainly access to affordable credit lines due to lack of collateral. Last year the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe announced that it was in the process of setting up a collateral registry in line with the Moveable Property Security Act to allow borrowers with moveable property to prove their creditworthiness to potential lenders. @NyarieBakie