 Leonard Ncube in Binga THE Japanese Embassy in Zimbabwe has constructed two classroom blocks and a teachers’ cottage at a satellite school in Binga. Nakapande Secondary in Dobola Ward is an annex of Pashu Secondary School. Japan Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Toshiyuku Iwado officially handed over the school blocks, cottage and furniture to local education authorities, bringing relief to more than 253 pupils who have been walking 40km a day to Pashu. Nakapande has five feeder primary schools namely Dobola, Munde, Nakapande, Sicitumba and Tobwe. The Japanese Embassy funded the $90 300 project in a partnership with Christian Youth Voluntary Association Trust (CYVAT) while the Catholic Church is the contractor. Mr Iwado said Japan strives to provide a better education for children in the country. “The aim is to provide better education for every girl and boy to make their community and country better. Today we officially hand over the school as we celebrate this friendship which will benefit future generations,” he  said. CYVAT board chair Mrs Bridget Sayers said the government of Japan provided $90 300 for the project which was implemented through Japan’s Grant Assistance for Grassroots Human Security Projects Programme in partnership with CYVAT. “Today is a new beginning and I am hopeful that challenges of learning in dagga buildings are being addressed today. We hope these new facilities will provide a safer learning environment for children and teachers,” she said. “This project lies within the objectives of the Zimbabwe government overall national development framework for education in improvement of school infrastructure and prioritisation of education in rural areas.” She said the project will help government realise its vision in line with the 4th Sustainable Development Goal to provide education for all. Mrs Sayers paid gratitude to the government of Japan for assisting rural communities in Zimbabwe. She said CYVAT, a registered trust doing humanitarian work in Matabeleland provinces was committed to uplifting rural communities. Matabeleland North Provincial Education Director Mr Jabulani Mpofu said the school meets minimum requirements to be registered so that it gets a substantive head. Chief Dobola appealed to other stakeholders to electrify the school. @ncubeleon