Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter REGISTRATION for the country’s game changers in sports industry, Sports Leaders Institute of Zimbabwe’s (Sliz) fifth edition of the Winter Camp to be held in Victoria Falls has opened. The institute, which seeks to capacitate sports administrators, teachers and tertiary institutes with changing trends in sports administration will hold its Winter Camp in the resort town of Victoria Falls from Friday July 6 to Sunday July 8. Sliz have invited an associate professor at America’s West Virginia University, Dr Gonzalo Bravo, to be the guest speaker at the retreat. He will deliver a presentation on managing sport organisations in global sport and its challenges. The Sliz president Russell Mhiribidi will lead a plenary session on ethical decision making in sport, covering principles, concerns and values. Mhiribidi said they are excited about Bravo’s visit which comes four months after Sliz president visited West Virginia University to cement ties established by both institutions meant to devolp sports in Zimbabwe. “Dr Bravo is an associate professor with vast experience in sports development, particularly in developing countries as he is a Chile, South American, native and his address will touch on issues that are similar to those affecting Zimbabweans when it comes to sports development. “We are expecting more than 250 participants for this year’s edition of the Sports Management Winter Camp and some of the topics that will be discussed include ethical decision making in sports organisation as well as group discussions among the participants in between the camp,” said Mhiribidi. Sliz are expecting local sports leaders drawn from colleges, universities, secondary and primary schools, sporting associations and clubs, as well as sports officers from Government arms, such as the Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services and the police to attend the programme. Sliz has also extended invitations to Zambian participants and are hoping that African Sports Management Association (ASMA) officials who have previously graced their functions attend the Victoria Falls symposium. Last year’s edition of the Winter Camp, which was held in Kariba, had 358 participants with renewable energy and anti-doping topic taking centre stage. @ZililoR