 EDITOR — Hendrix Chanetsa (34) is an emerging entrepreneur who is into distribution of conveyor and transmission belts. He is the founder and owner of a Harare distribution company, National Belting, which was formed in December 2013. He said that National Belting was established as a mining and industrial supplier focusing mainly on transmission and conveyor belting. He registered the idea of starting his own company while he was working at a local garage where he was underpaid. Today, National Belting company is one of the leaders in the trade. The company provides conveyor and transmission belts mainly targeting the mining and agricultural sectors. Operating with very few resources, Chanetsa started providing conveyor belts in a shared office at High Glen shopping Centre. He later on moved to Southerton as his business started to boom and needed a bigger space. National Belting company has four employees, two of them women. Chanetsa has a strong customer base from as far as Chirundu, Beitbridge and Bulawayo where he mainly supplies small and large scale operations. The young entrepreneur makes use of social media especially Whatsapp and Facebook to market his business and this has boosted his sales over the years. Chanetsa has confidence in the quality of goods he sells. “When a company or an individual buys anything from me, there is guarantee that he will bring more customers to me. “My clients are my referees. I sell only quality products; that is how good I am in my trade.’’ Chanetsa has embraced the use of                 plastic money to ensure that his business thrives despite the cash shortages in the country. Payment methods include Ecocash as well as bank transfers. Recently, he got a point of sale machine from Steward Bank which has put him ahead of his competitors in the industry. During these tough times most people tend to lose hope, but people like Chanetsa refuse to be defined by tough economic situations. His achievements prove that he has persevered despite the economic challenges. Chanetsa wants to take opportunities made available by President Mnangagwa and is looking forward to opening branches of National Belting nationwide. He also has interests in the information communication technology side, selling cellphone and computer accessories. Samantha Chipoyera