 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter HWANGE will be seeking maximum points against Talen Vision as they push for a strong finish to the first half of the Southern Region Division One League campaign. The former Premiership side heads into today’s home game at the Colliery Stadium bubbling with confidence and sitting at the top of the league table with 28 points; four ahead of second-placed Tsholotsho. The coal miners staged a dramatic comeback last weekend to beat Zim Leopards 3-1 in Bulawayo. It is the fighting spirit exhibited by his charges that gives Hwange coach Nation Dube reason to believe that they are on the path to a quick Premiership return. “This is a marathon and we have to remain focused and see where we end the season. The guys are fighting hard in every game and with such an attitude, I think we are on the right track to winning promotion. It won’t be an easy campaign, but we have to persevere and believe in ourselves,” said Dube. Hwange welcome back chief striker Gilbert Zulu, who missed the Zim Leopards game through suspension. Toronto are yet to win in 13 games and will have to be at their best to upstage Hwange. Last weekend, Toronto lost 1-2 to Casmyn, but coach Ghetto Nkala is optimistic his side will put on a good show. “We always go into every game to fight for a positive result. It’s a matter of time before we get that one win and we hope it comes sooner,” said Nkala. Toronto have been playing good football, but their inability to score has been their biggest let down. Second-placed ZPC Hwange will be away to Talen Vision, who are hard-pressed for a positive result at Gifford High School. Makomo, who beat Casmyn 1-0 at Turk Mine on Thursday, are away to Indlovu Iyanyathela at Mzilikazi Barracks in Bulawayo. Tomorrow, Tsholotsho will be in Victoria Falls for a date against Mosi Rovers. Fixtures Today: Hwange v Toronto (Hwange, 12PM), Moto Moto v NRZ Leopards (Mpumalanga), Talen Vision vs ZPC Hwange (Gifford, 12PM), Main Line v CIWU (Plumtree), Indlovu Iyanyathela v Makomo (Mzilikazi Barracks, 12PM), Bosso 90 v ZRP Bulawayo Province (Luveve), Casmyn v Zim Leopards (Turk Mine) Tomorrow: Mosi Rovers v Tsholotsho (Victoria Falls)