Cde Mlungisi Moyo Nduduzo Tshuma, Political Editor ZANU-PF Bulawayo Central candidate Cde Mlungisi Moyo believes that the country is headed for greatness if Zimbabweans back his party and leader President Emmerson Mnangagwa in next Monday’s harmonised elections. Cde Moyo who is also the Zanu-PF secretary for Finance in Bulawayo says he is ready, if given the mandate by the electorate, to work for the development of the people. “We need people who go into parliament and craft pieces of legislation that are relevant to the day to day living of Zimbabweans. We want people who go there to scrutinise and analyse and amend the colonial legislation. One I can randomly pick is the allocation of building of clinics within a radius of 5km. “In my constituency there are no clinics in Ward 5 because of these prohibitive pieces of legislation. So now the population has expanded, and people are now stranded. It will make more sense to make sure it’s our thrust to provide affordable healthcare and make sure that people don’t walk long distances to access clinics,” said Cde Moyo. “Talking to residents during our door to door campaign that was one of the thorny issues that wanted to be addressed. The mothers of the new-born babies are crying that they have to travel long distances from Hillside, Morningside and Burnside to come to Princess Margaret Clinic. “So they were saying if there could be a space where a clinic can be built so that they also become active economically than to spend more time travelling to clinics. They can also become productive and take care of their children.” Cde Moyo said the country also needs MPs who would play the supervisory role without fear and favour to supervise the executive in implementing the pieces of legislation. “We have seen some of the MPs, I guess its lack of work clarity, they will go there for years and we see no change. “An MP goes to Parliament to articulate the needs and demands of their constituency. This is where you see the birth of the CDF and based on that we need an MP who can come up with broad based empowerment initiatives where you can communicate the needs of the electorate, being the mouthpiece of the electorate, be the eyes and ears of the electorate.” Cde Moyo said President Mnangagwa has within a short period of his inauguration attracted investment prospects that the country has not recorded since 2000. “What has possibly put that on hold is that he is finishing a mandate that was not his. Once we give him a fresh mandate it is my sincere hope and belief that he is a man of his word,” he said. “We have seen changes in a short space of time and we have seen him attract FDI in a period of 6 months which is more than we have ever attracted since 2000. To me it gives me hope and I hope all the Zimbabweans will see the new or second Republic in that kind of perspective. “If we can vote the man in, he is talking business; he is talking economics over politics and this is a radical shift from the old order where we used to have more of political expediency. Now, President Mnangagwa is over-emphasising the pragmatism in economic issues that communicate directly to the needs of the general citizenry of Zimbabwe.” Cde Moyo said the door to door campaigns they have been conducting have revealed that many people have warmed up to Zanu-PF. “President Mnangagwa has shown that he is the chief advocate of servant leadership, a listening President. “We were the first party to hold primary elections, that we wanted to take back Zimbabwe to constitutionalism and implementing devolution of power,” he said. “I’m very confident that for every progressive Zimbabwean, if they understand the vision that Zanu –PF as a party and the President is carrying forward, we should be able to take Zimbabwe back to its status of being the bread basket of Africa.” Cde Moyo said President Mnangagwa has come up with a new dimension that he would not tolerate any “ism” in the country but promote inclusivity. He said the President has opened up the gates of power by allowing young leaders to contest in the party polls. “I am ably supported by my three youthful councillors in Cde Anthel Marufu (Ward 5) , Cde Gift Muhomba (Ward 1) and Cde Matthew Mutavayi (Ward 2). “This is a clear testimony that the perpetuity of the revolutionary movement is guaranteed as we have young leaders who are willing to learn from their elders “To me ED is bringing in a new change, a fresh page and new hope, he is very realistic, he is not promising people things that he can’t deliver. I was happy to see in today’s paper that he is now called Mr Groundbreaking, that on its own shows the direction that he is taking, the Zimbabwe that we have is a country that has an economic trajectory, it’s no longer a Zimbabwe based on the preserve of power,” said Cde Moyo. “On that footing, people are more enlightened and the future is in their hands and they have to go with a leader who promises deliverables, a leader who creates hope which embodies ED in a nutshell.” Cde Moyo’s Brief Background I’m a married man with 3 children. I’m a scholar, politician and a businessman. I graduated with a BSc Honours Degree in Statistics in 2000 at the University of Zimbabwe. In 2002 I graduated with a Master of Science in Operations Research from the National University of Science and Technology (Nust) and from the same institution I graduated with a Masters in Business Administration. This year I’m looking forward to graduating with a Masters in Financial Engineering also from Nust. I have also thrown in my proposal for a PHD thesis to University of Pretoria, if it is accepted, I will pursue my PhD studies. As a business person I have a company, Neeraf Investments which has two divisions. One division focuses on mining consumables and industrial equipment and the other division focuses on catering equipment and consumables. Politically I became active in 1996 when I was at the UZ. At the time, I was active in the Zanu-PF youth. After school I became active here and 2009 I was the secretary for finance in the City Centre district and in 2001, I became the vice chairman of the same district. In 2013 I then won the right to represent the party in the 2013 elections and in the same year I was voted into the political structures where I served as the secretary for indigenisation and economic empowerment from 2013 until the onset of the new dispensation, that’s when I was redeployed to secretary of finance.