Sarah Mpofu Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent THE Miss Tourism Zimbabwe Bulawayo finals taking place this Saturday will be held in honour of veteran modelling guru Sarah Mpofu-Sibanda for her immense contribution to the modelling fraternity. The pageant will be held at the Rainbow Hotel with the theme being “Unveiling the Beauty of Zimbabwe”. Bulawayo provincial licence holder Nobesuthu Masango said they wanted to honour Mpofu-Sibanda, an accomplished actress who is the MTZ national licence holder, while she is still alive. “The mistake we often make is that we wait for someone to die and then we start celebrating and praising them. It’s for this reason that we want to honour Sarah when she’s still alive for her positive contributions to the modelling and beauty industry for over 30 years,” said Masango. Mpofu-Sibanda who runs Fingers Modelling Academy has been grooming models and organising beauty contests such as Miss Bulawayo, Miss Africa, Miss Zimbabwe and Miss Tourism Zimbabwe for over 20 years. To her credit, she has played a role in moulding the careers of successful models including former Miss Bulawayo and MTZ chairperson Sibusisiwe Dube, former Miss Tourism Zimbabwe’s Caroline Marufu and Samantha Tshuma, reigning Miss Tourism Zimbabwe Ashley Morgen as well as Lungile Mathe. Apart from grooming models, the bubbly Mpofu-Sibanda who is always at her Finger’s office, is loved by many in Bulawayo for her open door policy where she gives motherly advice. Without revealing what they will do on the night for Mpofu-Sibanda, Masango said they wanted to honour a woman who had changed the lives of many women. “She’s had a positive influence in the lives of many and also has changed the lives of a lot of women in the industry. Almost every beauty queen in Zimbabwe has passed through the hands of Sarah. For so long, she has dedicated her life to the modelling industry so we saw it befitting for us as Bulawayo – where she is based – to honour her during the finals,” said Masango who is a former Miss Big is Beautiful queen. Mpofu-Sibanda said she was thrilled at being honoured. “I feel thrilled and I don’t feel that I’ve done anything out of the ordinary. I’m just one of the few lucky ones who chose a profession that I’m passionate about and followed through with it. “I’m not expecting anything during the night as just this recognition is enough honour.” She expressed hope that one day the nation will honour her efforts. “I think there’s still a lot more that can be done in the beauty industry and that’s what I’m fighting for everyday. I also hope that one day, Zimbabwe will realise and see it fit to bestow me such an honour,” said Mpofu-Sibanda. In 1989, Mpofu-Sibanda together with her late husband Peter Mpofu who was a model started Fingers Academy, a hair and beauty salon that incorporated a modeling school/agency. She said their mission was to convince, especially the black community that the beauty and modelling industries were just as good as others. Now, her agency graduates a minimum of two classes of not less than 10 students per year, most who have made names for themselves and have managed to start up businesses of their own. These include Samantha Tshuma who now runs her own modelling agency – Open Eye Studio. Sibusisiwe Dube, a top businesswoman in Harare and health administrator was awarded by the Women’s Heritage Society World Organisation as the top Outstanding Woman in the Health and Medical Services among many other awards. Shadel Nobel, also a product of Fingers Academy was named the best male model at this year’s Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards.