Rtd Justice Selo Nare Andile Tshuma and Locadia Mavhudzi, Chronicle Reporters POLITICAL party representatives from Matabeleland North and Midlands provinces have signed a peace pledge committing their parties to a peaceful campaign ahead of the harmonised elections. In Matabeleland North, the provincial peace pledge signing ceremony was held at the Lupane Community Hall yesterday. Rev Useni Sibanda It was organised by the National Peace and Reconciliation Commission (NPRC) in collaboration with the Churches Convergence for Peace and Zimbabwe Christian Alliance. The pledge, which is the first of its kind in Zimbabwe, is in line with President Mnangagwa’s repeated calls for free, fair, peaceful and credible elections. Addressing political party representatives and other stakeholders at the signing ceremony, NPRC chairperson Retired Justice Sello Nare said political leaders had a task to disseminate the gospel of peace to communities. Retired Justice Nare said violence was stalling development in the country and it had to be eliminated. Zimbabwe Christian Alliance Executive Director, Reverend Useni Sibanda, urged political parties to accept the outcome of elections and observe peace. He said the churches had seen it fit to embark on a peace project with the NPRC as that was a biblical calling. “As churches we realised a trend of violence during previous elections and we decided that we had to do something. We urge political parties to strive to reach a point where they can talk and understand one another and accept results of elections,” Rev Sibanda said. He said measures were in place to train and educate church leaders on violence. Political parties that signed the pledge were Zanu-PF and the MDC Alliance. In Matabeleland South on Tuesday, Zanu- PF, MDC, Zapu, MDC-T, Mthwakazi Republic Party and Zimbabwe Party for Prosperity signed the pledge. Party representatives that signed the pledge vowed that their parties would observe peace at all costs. On the same day political parties in the Midlands signed the pledge in Gweru. NPRC Commissioner Ms Netty Musanhu said her commission upholds peace as a key ingredient for development before, during, and after the July 30 harmonised elections. “Peaceful elections are a key ingredient for long-term peace and development in the country and the NPRC has a key role to play in contributing towards this goal. Let us work to together for social cohesion and nation building. It is our responsibility as Zimbabweans to create a social pact for the future,” said Ms Musanhu. Zanu-PF Representative Cde Barbra Rwodzi, who is also the aspiring Member of Parliament for Chirumanzu constituency, said her party through its leader President Mnangagwa has been preaching peace. “As a big brother, our message has always been of peace as enunciated by our leader President Mnangagwa,” she said. MDC Alliance representative Advocate Brian Dube thanked the police and the courts for ensuring peace in the province. “I would like to particularly thank ZRP and the courts. Police presence is always there when we go out for campaigns and politically motivated crimes are being dealt with expeditiously by our courts,” he said. — @andile_tshuma