NPRC chairperson Retired Justice Sello Nare (left) lights candles of political party representatives during the signing of the peace pledge in Gwanda yesterday Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent POLITICAL party representatives from Matabeleland South Province yesterday signed a peace pledge committing their parties to a peaceful campaign ahead of elections. The provincial peace pledge signing ceremony, which was held at the Gwanda District Club, was organised by the National Peace and Reconciliation Commission (NPRC) in collaboration with the Churches Convergence for Peace. The pledge, which is the first of its kind in the history of Zimbabwe, is in line with President Mnangagwa’s repeated calls for free, fair, peaceful and credible elections. Addressing political party representatives and other stakeholders at the signing ceremony, NPRC chairperson Retired Justice Sello Nare said political leaders had the task to disseminate the gospel of peace to communities. He said violence was stalling development in the country and it had to be eliminated. “As a commission we are on the move to spread the message of peace. On June 26 aspiring presidential candidates signed the peace pledge in Harare and now we have cascaded to provincial level. On Friday we were in Masvingo and then we moved on to Chiredzi and today we are in Matabeleland South,” said Retired Justice Nare. “We are gathered here today as political parties and churches as we are ambassadors of peace and reconciliation. As political party representatives you will sign the peace pledge and from here go to the grassroots and urge communities to maintain peace. We can achieve justice, peace and reconciliation as a nation only if we are committed.” Speaking at the same ceremony, Zimbabwe Christian Alliance Executive Director, Reverend Useni Sibanda, urged political parties to accept the outcome of elections and observe peace. He said the churches had seen it fit to embark on a peace project with the NPRC as that was a biblical calling. “We have converged as churches in our different structures to engage in this project titled the Churches Convergence on Peace. This is a 15 month project although there will still be more work to be done after that. “As churches we realised a trend of violence during previous elections and we decided that we had to do something. We urge political parties to strive to reach a point where they can talk and understand one another and accept results of elections. We have set in place measures to train and educate church leaders on violence who will then disseminate information to the people. Throughout this process we will be working with NPRC,” said Rev Sibanda. He said during the campaign, churches were urging political parties to desist from using hate speech or insulting each other. Rev Sibanda said local peace committees will be formed at community level to ensure that peace prevails. He said implementing partners of the project were the Zimbabwe Christian Alliance, Zimbabwe Divine Destiny and Zimbabwe Council for Churches. He said in Matabeleland South the project will be implemented in Gwanda South, Beitbridge, Plumtree, Matobo North and Matobo South. Political parties that signed the pledge are Zanu-PF, Zapu, MDC-T, MDC, Mthwakazi Republic Party and Zimbabwe Party for Prosperity. Party representatives that signed the pledge vowed that their parties would observe peace at all costs. @DubeMatutu