Minister Prisca Mupfumira Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent Minister of Tourism and Hospitality Industry Prisca Mupfumira says this year’s Sanganai/Hlanganani World Tourism Expo will celebrate the life of late Vice President Dr Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo. She said this during the Joshua Nkomo Heritage Tourism Trails launch at the Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo Museum in Bulawayo on Saturday. The trails, a narrow linear route primarily intended for recreational travel by walking, backpacking or cycling will earmark tourist attractions around places that Dr Nkomo, who died on July 1, 1999 lived in. These include his houses in Matsheumhlope and Pelandaba, his statue and his resting place at the National Heroes’ Acre in Harare. Minister Mupfumira said the idea of this activity was mooted after their visit to South Africa where the country is celebrating the same thing for their late president Nelson Mandela. “There’s nothing wrong with copying a great concept. This year at Sanganai, we want to celebrate the life of Joshua Nkomo,” said Minister Mupfumira. “The Joshua Nkomo Heritage Tourism trails will start from his birth place to the end of his life and the legacy he left us.” Minister Mupfumira said the people of Zimbabwe have a unique story to tell and described Nkomo’s legacy as the most kept secret in Zimbabwe’s heritage. She said this launch in partnership with the Nkomo family, will be used as a vehicle to promote international and domestic tourism. “We want to attract the world to Zimbabwe but we want to attract Zimbabweans first so that they understand and appreciate what we’re doing. The thrust of going into provinces and districts promoting cultural tourism is supported by the UNWTO which says we must focus on our culture and history.” Joshua Nkomo Trustee Thandi Nkomo-Ibrahim said they appreciated the ministry’s initiative. She said the recognition would help preserve the rich heritage of her father. “We’re confident that these heritage tourism trails will ensure that the legacy is preserved for  future generations. What’s happening in South Africa is that everything is celebrated around the number 100 because Mandela would’ve been 100 this year. What they’ve done is to identify 100 situations throughout the life of Mandela including where he was born, where he grew up, his stay in jail and everything he did so that people don’t forget Mandela,” said Nkomo-Ibrahim. The event was attended by Joshua Nkomo Cultural Movement (JNCM) chairperson and son to Dr Nkomo, Mr Sibangilizwe Nkomo, Bulawayo Provincial Affairs Minister Cde Angeline Masuku, Zimbabwe Tourism Authority chief executive Karikoga Kaseke and historian Phatisa Nyathi. Sanganai/Hlanganani will be held in Bulawayo from September 6 to 8 with the Joshua Nkomo tourism trail set to be open to the public then.