Police Commissioner-General Godwin Matanga Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent BULAWAYO police were yesterday challenged to work towards decongesting the city’s Central Business District which has become chaotic. Speaking during his first address to senior police officers in Bulawayo at Ross Camp Police Station, Commissioner General Godwin Matanga said law enforcement agents should aim to regain public trust. He said police can do so by addressing policing problems that are affecting the people such as congestion of the CBD. Driving in Bulawayo’s CBD has become a nightmare for motorists especially following the closure of Basch Street Bus Terminus, popularly known as Egodini. Kombi crews and pirate taxis are now operating from the CBD disregarding the rules of the road as they make pick and drops anywhere they see fit. Comm-Gen Matanga said police officers should swiftly address the problem. “Scenes must be attended to in time. In the same vein, your traffic police deployments must answer to the people’s concerns. Members on deployment must exhibit a level of duty consciousness. In this regard you must continue  your co-operation with other stakeholders in the decongestion of the Bulawayo CBD and in the fight against all forms of crime,” he said. Recently, police in Bulawayo introduced police controlled intersections in a bid to reduce the traffic congestion in the city centre. Comm Gen Matanga said police should increase their visibility through patrolling areas and urged them to introspect before going out to enforce the law. “But, before we go out to solicit support in our policing endeavours, we must first foster that enhanced co-operation within the organisation from peer level, beyond and across the organisational stratum. Let us all strongly resist the temptation to work at cross purposes,” he said. Comm Gen Matanga said the restructuring of the police force is meant improve the police services, dismissing reports that the exercise was rendering some officers useles. “For the record, let me state that this process shall not render anyone redundant for all incumbents whose officers and posts are affected will be redeployed to areas that the organisation shall continue to immensely benefit from their contribution through optimum utilisation of their great skills and wealth experience,” he said. Comm Gen Matanga refuted reports circulating within the force that 300 officers were earmarked for promotion saying the assertion was just “merely a figment of their own fertile imagination which has to be dismissed with the contempt it deserves.” @nqotshili