Ambassador Brian Andrew Nichols Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter NEWLY appointed United States Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Brian Andrew Nichols has commended the prevailing environment in the country saying the campaign period has relatively been peaceful and better than in previous years. He said preparations for elections set for next Monday have been going well with credit going to reforms initiated by President Emmerson Mnangagwa. In an interview with a local radio station on Monday, Mr Nichols said the focus of the entire world was on Zimbabwe regarding the forthcoming harmonised elections. “This is a fascinating and wonderful time for Zimbabwe. Exciting changes, the possibility of much closer relationship between our two countries and the interest of the entire world is here now so am very excited to be representing my country in Zimbabwe. “This week is going to be crucial, the preparations thus far have gone better than any elections in recent memory. Talking to the experts, the preparation of the voters roll, the ability of opposition candidates to campaign freely, access to the media, use of violence particularly in rural areas have all significantly improved compared to the past,” he said. Mr Nichols said although there were a number of areas Zimbabwe needs to work on regarding reforms, there were already some positives from the initiatives by the Government. “I think our relationship is improving. I think we are welcoming the commitment to credible, free, fair and transparent elections that the Government of Zimbabwe has put forward. “The preparation for the election has been overall quite positive though there are a number of areas that still need work and we are committed to a better relationship if Zimbabwe continues down the path of democracy and reform ,” he said. Turning to his meeting with President Mnangagwa last week, Mr Nichols said he shared the same vision with the country’s leader. “I think his aspirations are the same as mine in that the relationship between our countries grows closer and that Zimbabwe and the United States are able to really have a partnership that makes progress going forward. The challenge obviously is to make sure that the reforms he’s announced go forward and that the elections that are coming next Monday are credible, free fair and transparent,” he said. Mr Nichols said he was deeply impressed by the 2013 Constitution of Zimbabwe and public commitment to reform and democracy expressed by all candidates in the Presidential race. “If Zimbabwe proceeds down that path of continued deep reforms and democratisation, rule of law and economic reforms, dealing with issues of debt and arrears, I think the relationship will improve rapidly. Those are challenging issues all of them but I’m hopeful that across the political spectrum people are committed to achieving them. I’m impressed by the need to improve on the path of reform,” he said. Mr Nichols said although he had not met the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission officials, he thinks they have taken some practical and significant steps in electoral preparations but the final examination is the election. “But I will say this week is crucial to build confidence in the process,” he said. Mr Nichols criticised some opposition elements that were directing personal attacks on women and Zec Chairperson Justice Priscilla Chigumba saying that was quite regrettable. “We believe that criticism should be based on policy criteria. Many of the criticisms that have been levelled were personal attacks and I really don’t think that’s appropriate and we found them quite regrettable. “There are plenty of things from a policy stand point people can raise concerns about but I hope they will keep their concerns respectable and not abusive particularly on grounds of sexism,” he said. The US Ambassador encouraged Zimbabweans to go and vote on July 30. @AuxiliaK United States Ambassador to Zimbabwe Mr Brian Andrew Nichols