 Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter FOUR people have been arrested after they were allegedly found stealing copper cables in Figtree, Matabeleland South. Police identified the suspects as Joseph Ndlovu (26) of Sontala and Mkhanyiselwa Ncube (26) of St Joseph in Matobo District as well as Cleopas Ngwenya (40) of Pumula North and Khethiwe Ncube (56) of Gwabalanda in Bulawayo. The suspects were nabbed at around 8PM on Sunday in a bush in Bhazha area. The quartet has been linked to three other copper cable theft cases that occurred in May and earlier this month within the province. Matabeleland South police spokesperson Inspector Philisani Ndebele confirmed the arrest of the suspects. “I can confirm the arrest of four suspects for alleged copper cable theft cases. Following a tip off by villagers, the four were ambushed and arrested on Sunday night in Bhazha area after they had allegedly stolen three rolls of copper cables. “The suspects have allegedly admitted to stealing copper cables worth $2 500 and $5 625 in May and $3 600 earlier this month. On Sunday they were allegedly found with three rolls which are yet to be valued,” he said. Two weeks ago, police in Matabeleland South appealed to anyone who may have information that can lead to the arrest of thieves who stole copper cables worth more than $28 000 in two different areas in Esigodini. Cables worth $28 125 were stolen at Blue Ridge Farm, while about $4 210 worth of cables were stolen near Sacred Heart Primary School and found dumped in the bush. Insp Ndebele said theft of copper cables has become rampant, crippling operations at many institutions such as hospitals, schools and businesses. “We appeal to members of the public with information that could lead to the arrest of the culprits to approach any police station near them. “It is important for these culprits to be arrested as they are causing so much unnecessary disruptions within the province and posing a threat to the nation’s economic growth,” he said. @winnie_masara