 Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter CHURCHES in Zimbabwe have hailed the peace that prevailed in yesterday’s harmonised elections and called on losers to accept their fate. Zimbabwe Council of Churches Chairperson, Bishop Mpande Lazarus Khanye, said the election had shown that Zimbabweans had shifted towards a culture of peace. “We are happy to say that so far we have not received any reports of acts of violence or any incidents that could disturb peace. So far, I can say that Zimbabwe has managed to hold peaceful polls and I am proud,” said Bishop Khanye. He hailed political parties for choosing peace through signing the Zimbabwe peace pledge. “We are happy about the situation on the ground. This is partly as a result of the peace pledge that was signed by all political parties. We feel that these party leaders took the message to their supporters as it is evident on the ground that the public chose peace. This should be commended and we are calling on all voters and the general public to continue exhibiting such calmness as it is what we need as a country,” he said. Bishop Khanye called on political parties to accept poll results, whatever the outcome. “In any election, there is a winner and a loser. Tensions are there, however, we are calling on the losers to accept their loss and as churches we are prepared to continue playing our role through post election dialogue sessions,” he said. Zimbabwe Christian Alliance Director, Reverend Useni Sibanda said he was happy that efforts of signing the peace pledge had not been in vain. “This is testimony to the fact that the efforts of having political parties sign the pace pledge have been fruitful. It is encouraging and motivation for the church when such happens,” said Rev Sibanda. The church leaders called for Zimbabweans to continue upholding and maintaining peace in the post election period. “After these elections, we expect and hope that Zimbabweans will continue to be as peaceful as they have been in the run up to the election, and on the Election Day. The post election period is very crucial and we pray that peace prevails in our country,” said Rev Sibanda. —@andile_tshuma