 Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter TRANSPARENCY International Zimbabwe (TIZ) has urged journalists to pursue investigative reporting to hold authorities accountable to the public. Addressing journalists in Bulawayo on Tuesday, TIZ international senior researcher and head of programmes, Mr Farai Mutondoro, said it was important for media practitioners to be true to their mandate of writing in the public interest to rid society of corruption. The workshop was premised primarily on land corruption and how the media can expose discrepancies in land distribution. Theworkshop came after TIZ realised that corruption was rife in the selling, giving and repossession of land both in urban, rural and new settlements across the country. “Many people are falling victim to land barons, masquerading as land developers and it is the duty of investigative journalists to expose such malice in society so that the public is aware and is protected,” said Mr Mutondoro. He said the public should be wary of stands sold on partisan basis and councillors in local authorities who sell stands privately as most of the land would have been acquired illegally. “Every local authority has a department of town planning and it is the duty of every home seeker to ensure that they are investing on a legal settlement. It is painful when houses and mansions are demolished, either when council repossesses land or the rightful owner of a piece of land pitches up. People must wise up because  there is corruption. Protect your resources and do not fall for scams,” he said. Mr Tapfuma Machakaire, a media consultant and board member of the Voluntary Media Council of Zimbabwe urged the public to research more about land ownership before moving into a settlement or buying a piece of land, as it will protect them from being duped of their hard earned money. “People fall victim to land corruption because sometimes they do not bother to approach relevant authorities and inquire about ownership and title deeds of a piece of land. In a court of law, one who buys a piece of land illegally is also at fault and may find it difficult to recover lost money. That is the legal world and it is above board,” said Mr Machakaire. TIZ is implementing 2018 project activities under the Land and Corruption project, a five year project that commenced in 2015 and is supported by the Germany Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development. The project aims to promote a people-centred approach to land governance which guarantees transparency, integrity, accountability and active citizen participation in respecting customary land and tenure rights. It also seeks to ensure the provision of fair, equitable and safe access to land and water for all communities.