Eddie Cross Michael Magoronga, Midlands Correspondent FORMER MDC-T leader Morgan Tsvangirai’s top advisor Mr Eddie Cross has predicted a resounding victory for President Mnangagwa in today’s Presidential elections, saying he has shown that he is a leader capable of repositioning the country into an economic powerhouse. In an interview on the sidelines of ZimCoke Plant ground breaking ceremony in Kwekwe on Friday last week, Mr Cross also said MDC Alliance presidential candidate Advocate Nelson Chamisa was still a political novice who needs more time to mature before dreaming of the high office. “Chamisa has got off to a good start but he is not going to win the majority. He is the future generation, he needs more time to learn the ropes before he can be considered for office. But otherwise he is a good chap who, however, is not ready for office, unfortunately,” said Mr Cross who is also a former MDC-T legislator for Bulawayo South. On President Mnangagwa, Mr Cross said he has created an environment that allows for investment and predicted a landslide win for the President and his party. “Ever since Emmerson (Mnangagwa) took over in November last year, there was a common purpose from his ministers. “Everyone is keen to deliver and it has yielded results as billions of dollars worth of investments commitments have been signed,” he said. He said the achievements made by President Mnangagwa during his short stint in office, will see him romping to victory easily. “There is a lot of investment that is coming into the country and I believe Emmerson Mnangagwa deserves another chance to see through some of the deals that are coming through. We have a lot of investors that are waiting to come through and utilise the conducive environment brought about by the new Government,” he said. He encouraged President Mnangagwa to form a strong executive after the elections. “What was destroying this country in the previous Government was that the majority of ministers were corrupt. They would demand money for deals to sail through. I urge Emmerson Mnangagwa to appoint a strong executive that will shun corruption,” said Mr Cross.. He said it would be shocking if MDC-T leader Dr Thokozani Khupe garners even one percent of the votes. Mr Cross is a shareholder in ZimCoke Private Limited that intends to inject $133 million towards the resuscitation of the Ziscosteel coke plant that is believed to be the first step in the resuscitation of the giant steel company.