Lloyd Chitembwe Tadious Manyepo, Sports Reporter Caps United . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .0 Bulawayo Chiefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  0 CAPS UNITED coach Lloyd Chitembwe yesterday said his team did not turn up as he had expected after the giants were held to a goalless draw by newboys Bulawayo Chiefs in a Castle Pager Premier Soccer League match at the national Sports Stadium yesterday. The Green Machine, who were coming from a nil-all draw against Harare City in their last match, were looking to use home advantage to bounce back to their winning ways. But there wasn’t much action at both ends of goal with Simba Nhivi coming close with a fine header from a freekick at the close of a dull first half. Chitembwe had no kind words for his team after they dropped two points at home. “Our application was not so good. There were a lot of technical and tactical mistakes, very disappointing. We were a bit slow; our ball movement was also very slow. “We didn’t look like were up to the challenge today. I am very disappointed. We didn’t look like we were up to the challenge. “To be honest this is one game that that I didn’t see any positives. There were a lot of negatives, like I said in most aspects of the game. I am sure technically it wasn’t polished, it wasn’t perfect. “Even the passing it wasn’t as quick as I would have liked so I am very disappointed. It was a poor game we had today,” said Chitembwe. The Caps United coach was forced to withdraw midfielder Joel Ngodzo in the first half and replaced him with captain Hardlife Zvirekwi as Makepekepe needed more verve going forward. Zvirekwi, who returned to football last week after recovering from a horrific car crash, gave a spirited performance that won the plaudits of his coach. Bulawayo Chiefs never troubled the Makepekepe goalkeeper Prosper Chigumba but they came close in the 45th minute when Arthur Musiwa miscued his effort after receiving the ball from Farawu Matare inside the box. The chances were still few and far between in the second half but John Zhuwawu had a good effort in the 58th minute which forced a good save from goalkeeper Winston Chiwetu. Carlton Mudzambwa also came close on the 63rd minute but saw his effort being punched away by the keeper before Zvirekwi directed his strike wide from the edge of the box. Chitembwe was still impressed by the former Zimbabwe international. “Hardlife is always Hardlife and we are happy with his contribution today. He was one of the shining lights out there and Steven (Makatuka) as well as Dominic (Mukandi, to some extent. And if you have only three players who are doing well, the team will struggle. Most of our players were off. “We have only played two games in the second half of the season and we still have more games and a long way to go,” said Chitembwe. Bulawayo Chiefs coach Garthly Chipuka was still impressed picking a point on the road against a big team like Caps United. “It’s a positive for us; looking at the position where we were, a point is okay for us, although we would have wanted three points. “It was just a routine game whereby we expecting a tough match because they have a lot of experience. They were going to dominate position. Our game was to disrupt that. That was the game plan,” said Chipuka. Caps United are fifth on the log standings with 22 points in the bag while Bulawayo Chiefs are further down the ladder on 13th place with 19 points. Teams Caps United: P Chigumba, S Makatuka, G Goriyati, C Munzabwa, V Musarurwa, D Mukandi, K Nyamupfukudza, J Ngodzo (H Zvirekwi, 34th min) M Ncube, (B Muzondiwa 80th min) J Zhuwawo, S Nhivi Bulawayo Chiefs: W Chiwetu, S Nyahwa, M Mkolo, P Moyo, A Tandi, T Mazuva, G Muleya, F Matare (Chidavaenzi 69th min), A Musiyiwa (C Makamba 56th min), P Chikwende ( D Chivandire 90th min) M Majika Results Saturday: Chapungu 3-1 Mutare City Rovers, Bulawayo City 1-1 Harare City, Yadah 1-1 FC Platinum, Chicken Inn 4-0 Nichrut, Ngezi Platinum Stars 3-1 Triangle United, ZPC Kariba 0-0 Black Rhinos Yesterday: Caps United 0-0 Bulawayo Chiefs, Highlanders 1-0 Herentals, Shabanie Mine 2-2 Dynamos