President ED Mnangagwa Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief PRESIDENT Mnangagwa is scheduled to tour the Cotton Company of Zimbabwe (Cottco) ginnery before addressing a Zanu-PF rally today in Gokwe North. President Mnangagwa’s tour of the Cottco ginnery follows resumption of operations under the new dispensation leading to the employment of thousands of people. The President’s rally comes a week after Vice President Constantino Chiwenga addressed a well-attended rally at Chireya High School under Chief Chireya in Gokwe South last week. Zanu-PF Midlands provincial chairperson Engineer Daniel Mackenzie Ncube yesterday said the province was ready to host the President. “ Gokwe has come alight as we prepare to host the President tomorrow (today). The President will tour the Cottco ginnery before addressing a rally at Mapfungautsi Primary School. We have been working on making the day to remember and I can safely say that everything is in place and we are happy to be receiving the President,” he said. Addressing villagers and Government officials at the commissioning of the recently completed Community Court for Chief Njelele in Gokwe last week, the Minister of State for Provincial Affairs in the Midlands province Cde Owen Ncube said under the new dispensation, the country was poised for socio-economic development. “The Cottco ginnery that had stopped running for several years has now resumed operations and in the process creating thousands of jobs to boost directly and indirectly. This is the trend across the country. As you may be aware, thanks to the progressive policies launched by His Excellency the President Cde ED Mnangagwa since he assumed office in November 2017, the national economic outlook has started to blossom. Within a period of only six months, the new dispensation has attracted Foreign Direct Investment commitments of more than $20 billion and more commitments are still coming,” he said. Addressing Zanu-PF supporters at White City in Bulawayo recently, President Mnangagwa said the ruling party is certain of victory in the harmonised elections and the polls to be held on July 30 will be a mere formality. “This gathering is a Zanu-PF gathering and I say to you as your leader, let us unite and mobilise and win the July 30th elections. Those elections are just a process to renew our mandate to rule the country. That’s the purpose of the election, otherwise we are the rulers. This party, our party is bigger than any individual in this party. No individual can put this party in one’s pocket, but the party itself can put us all in the party pocket,” he said. President Mnangagwa, who is the ruling party’s Presidential candidate, preached peace, as he implored party supporters to refrain from violence to ensure a clean electoral victory. He said the open invitation for international observers to observe next month’s polls was a testimony of his administration’s commitment to credible polls. “We don’t need any violence at all. Unity, love and peace. We need an untainted thunderous victory. We have invited for the first time in history of the country worldwide observers. We have said our elections are transparent, are fair and credible. “Anybody who wants to come and observe our elections must come and observe. We have opened the gates. We would want you as Zimbabweans to show your maturity, your warmth to visitors that are coming into our country.”