Kenneth Mhlophe Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS’ bona fide members will meet for their mid-season extraordinary general meeting to review the club’s first half of the season and also tackle other burning matters that might arise. The meeting is scheduled for July 22. Highlanders hold the mid-season meetings where the chairman and treasurer present reports. Bosso board executive secretary Israel Moyo said the meeting will be held at the club house where a report on the constitutional review process and any other business will be tackled. Five days prior notice is required for any other business. Bosso haven’t won the championship in over a decade and club chairman Rtd Col Kenneth Mhlophe will be expected to brief members on how the rebuilding project aimed at bringing glory to Bosso is shaping up. This will be Mhlophe’s first meeting as the club’s chairman, having assumed office in January. Members will also be informed about proposed acquisitions and player movements. Winger Gabriel Nyoni is undergoing trials with Botswana champions Township Rollers and should he make the grade, details of his move will most likely be revealed at the mid-season general meeting. Mhlophe has also encouraged members, including those that have been vocal on the social media, to submit issues they want discussed at the meeting early, as no matter not on the agenda will be entertained on the day. “There are certain policy issues that members may be eager to have addressed and what we are saying is that according to the club’s constitution, it is their right to submit those ideas so that we come with the answers. They have to submit these things five days before the meeting so that they get answered. I am appealing to members to come in their numbers so that we can share ideas and see how best we can make this great institution develop,” said Mhlophe. Both the chairman and treasurer’s reports are expected to capture what Highlanders have done to arrest the ballooning debt, which threatens the survival of the club. Bosso’s debt is reportedly close to $1 million. Members will also be briefed on the nominations of suitable candidates for the board.   — @ZililoR