 Harare Bureau POLICE in Harare have arrested a man for allegedly targeting women and lacing their drinks with drugs before stealing from them. Criminal Investigations Department spokesperson, Detective Assistant Inspector Portia Chinho, confirmed the arrest yesterday. She said the suspect, Tatenda Nyowa (34) was facing six counts of theft. “The Zimbabwe Republic Police, Criminal Investigation Department (CID) Murehwa, has arrested Tatenda Nyowa aged 34 years of Kaseke Homestead, Mhondiwa Village, Chief Mangwende in Murewa. He is facing six counts of theft, which occurred between February 2018 and June 2018,” she said. She said the suspect wreaked havoc in Greater Harare, Murewa and other cities where he targeted women and commercial sex workers. “He would get them to invite him to their homes for the night and steal from them while they were fast asleep. In some instances, the suspect would go a step further and lace the victim’s soft drink or beer with a drug popularly known as “mangemba“ or Ciproxin, which causes drowsiness,” Detective Asst Insp Chinho said. She said in one of the cases, which occurred on June 5 this year in Murewa, the suspect lured one of the victims, a prostitute and the two agreed to go to her house for the night. “The victim and suspect retired to bed. On June 6, 2018 at around 0300 hours, the suspect woke up and asked the victim to fetch water for him to bath. The suspect took advantage of the victim’s absence and stole two cellphones, cash amounting to $30 and went away. The victim returned and discovered the offence,” she said. Police received a tip-off that Nyowa’s wife was selling cellphones suspected to have been stolen and they arrested her. Nyowa’s wife was interviewed and implicated the suspect who was subsequently arrested. A search of Nyowa’s house led to the recovery of a number ofcell phones, wallets with bank cards and identity cards of victims. “Police are calling on all the people who might have fallen victim to the accused to come and identify their property at ZRP CID Murewa. “The police would like to urge members of the public to remain vigilant and report all suspicious strangers roaming in their areas. The ZRP would also like to extend their appreciation to members of the public for their unwavering support and cooperation,” Detective Asst Insp Chinho said. Police have urged the public to contact CID Murewa on (0278) 22107 or any nearest police station or the National Complaints Desk on (04) 703631 for more information.