 Business Reporter THE African Tax Administration Forum (ATAF) and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) have signed a renewal of their memorandum of understanding until 2023, agreeing to collaborate towards improving tax systems in Africa. In a recent joint statement, leaders from the two organisations said the move sets the stage for increased co-operation towards the achievement of the common objective of promoting fair and efficient tax systems and administrations in Africa. “ATAF has made tremendous strides in its ability to offer concrete and tangible benefits to member administrations. Our targeted technical assistance work in stemming Illicit Financial Flows (IFFs) that erode Africa’s tax base in key sectors, has begun to bear fruit and is a key driver in advancing Africa’s development Agenda 2063,” ATAF executive secretary, Logan Wort, said. “Our two organisations enjoy a special relationship that has contributed to the sharing of knowledge and the development of better tax policy for Africa and technical skills of African revenue administrators.” Pascal Saint-Amans, head of directorate of the OECD’s Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, weighed in saying it was a privilege to partner with ATAF in the past nine years. “Our work with African countries is an essential component, which helps us to develop new international tax standards,” he said. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) is a unique forum where the governments of 34 democracies with market economies work with each other, as well as with more than 70 non-member economies to promote economic growth, prosperity, and sustainable development. ATAF is an international organisation that provides a platform for cooperation among African tax authorities. Regional tax experts have stressed the need to bolster domestic resource mobilisation (DRM) as essential towards reaching the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Addis Ababa Action Agenda (AAAA) also recognises the universal nature of the tax challenges of the 21st century. This memorandum was signed on the occasion of a meeting between the two organisations in Pretoria, South Africa.