Rodwell Dhlakama Mukudzei Chingwere, Midlands Bureau Chapungu 1- 0 Bulawayo City EXACTLY 117 spectators braved the cold weather of Gweru to watch Chapungu’s narrow Premiership victory against Bulawayo City at Ascot yesterday. But the match had nothing to show for those few fans who defied the chilly weather conditions that swept the country over the weekend and those who stayed away will feel they did not miss anything. By their own standards it was a poor crowd to watch a Chapungu game when compared to the numbers of supporters who usually throng Ascot to rally behind the only team in the city playing Premiership football. Striker Edington Chirape rose from the bench to give the only telling contribution to a rather drab match when he scored to give the hosts what proved to be the winner 10 minutes from time.  Yesterday’s result means Chapungu are now on 16 points while Bulawayo City remains in danger and two points behind. Chapungu coach Rodwell Dhlakama however felt the mid-season break has helped his charges as they aim to preserve their Premiership status. “The good thing is that our players managed to rest after they had gone for a training camp, (airforce camp) so I think they had enough time to rest and recharged the batteries. “It is a good start for us and we just have to keep focused and collect more points as the season progresses. “The team is on the right path and we have done very well in recruiting young players, the team has some young blood and I think we are on the right direction,” said Dhlakama. His Bulawayo City counterpart Amini Soma Phiri blamed an error from his goalkeeper for the loss. “It was just a goalkeeping error the ball was his, but his reaction was a bit slow, I think the fair result was maybe a goalless draw. “But the fight is still on it could have been better if we did not lose but unfortunately games are like that,” said Phiri. Teams: Chapungu; T Shumba, T Kumbuyani, E Chitauro, B Mbavarira, M Muchingami, C Kwaramba, I Nyoni, M Mavuto (E Muzanenhamo 80th min), A Tavarwisa (E Chirape 63rd min), B Mugoni (R Matutu 89th min), P Marufu Bulawayo City; K Nyoni, Z Ngodzo, Z Sibanda, H Ncube, E Mudzingwa, R Pavari, I Kutsanzira, T Tavengwa, A Ncube (J Kaunda 90th min), T January (S Ndlovu 90th min), T Banda