Mr Cuthbert Ncube Nkosilathi Sibanda, Chronicle Reporter BULAWAYO East House of Assembly aspirant for the newly formed Zimbabwe Rainbow Democratic Party (ZRDP) Mr Cuthbert Ncube has said Zimbabweans must not be divided by the elections but must see polls as an opportunity to rebuild the country.Mr Ncube said this while donating bags of mealie meal to people who live at Killarney squatter camp as part of his party’s outreach programme in the constituency. He said his donation follows an outcry from more than 40 families that live in abject poverty. The politician handed over the food consignment and said the gesture is not a vote buying gimmick but is part of the social responsibility policy that drives ZRDP in its campaigns.He said people must not be used by politicians who give them food in exchange for votes. “The reason we came here with this donation is that we heard of the dire living conditions that settlers here are faced with. We want to help where we can. Our party, the Zimbabwe Rainbow Democratic Party is here to assist. We do not plead for your votes but would want to enlighten each of us to vote wisely. We believe that as Zimbabweans we must not be divided by votes but make such an environment a chance to introspect and see how we can rebuild broken societies. Progress, development and respect of basic human rights are what we need,” he said to the families receiving the donation. “The people of Killarney squatter camp should not cry of hunger when others are living well. It hurts that there is abject poverty in the midst of an affluent suburb like Killarney. This was a creation of someone who did not have people at heart. Also remember never to be used by politicians who give you food so that you vote for them. We are all equal in the eyes of God.” Mr Ncube said it is the mandate of politicians to make sure that no one is segregated when it comes to resource allocation. He advised the settlers to continue their fight for decent housing and basic rights. “Living under squalid conditions is not humane. Whoever was leading this constituency (Bulawayo East) over the years did not do you well. Rise up and take up the stand to fight for your rights. The right to shelter as demanded by the constitution is everyone’s right. To be a squatter should not be a permanent condition. Do not be fooled.”A representative of the settlers Mr Tony Ndlovu said they were grateful for Mr Ncube’s donation.“We really appreciate the gratitude which Ncube has shown us at least we can now afford to have a decent meal for a couple of weeks. We, however, intend to have an interactive meeting with him so that he assists us with water, which is a big challenge here,” said Mr Ndlovu. While the settlers were receiving the food stuffs, Mr Ncube was presented with cases of school children who do not have national identity documents and birth certificates.