Mr Bharat Bhushan, leader of Brahma Kumaris Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Correspondent THE leader of a worldwide spiritual movement Brahma Kumaris, Mr Bharat Bhushan is in Zimbabwe for a week-long conference starting today that will touch on issues affecting humanity. Brahma Kumaris is a worldwide spiritual movement dedicated to personal transformation and world renewal that was founded in India in 1937 and has spread to over 110 countries on all continents. In an interview with Chronicle at the institution’s centre in Bulawayo yesterday, Mr Bhushan, an accomplished civil engineer who coordinates the science and engineering wing of Brahma Kumaris said it was important for communities to achieve social cohesion. “I have noticed that Africans in general and Zimbabweans in particular are a hard working people. However, they are worried and there is tension in the country, partly due to politics and poverty. “I want to encourage the community through this programme, that we must uphold values and virtues as individuals, and meditate, find peace in order to coexist in a peaceful environment which is full of love,” said Mr Bhushan who is the director of Gyan Mansarovar Academy and chief coordinator of Panipat zone in India, overseeing 38 centres and 300 gitas of Brahma Kumaris in India. He said mental health was a crucial aspect of an individual and maintaining mental stability is key in longevity and preventing stress related ailments. “The World Health Organisation reports that 90 percent of illnesses and health conditions are a result of the mind; psychologically related. As Brahma Kumaris, we believe that if we tackle the mind and fight worry, stress and introduce lifestyle changes even in diets, then we can achieve better quality of life, and less diseases,” he said. Mr Bhushan has been in Harare but arrived in Bulawayo for the conference at the weekend. He met the mayor of Bulawayo, Councillor Martin Moyo on Sunday for an official meeting ahead of the conference. The conference is open to the public and attendance is free. “We invite the Bulawayo community to come and join us and we are an institution and not a religious organisation, therefore this programme is free to people from all denominations,” he said. Mr Bhushan is an accomplished motivational speaker in many disciplines including the art of positive thinking, relationships, stress management, self-empowerment, moral values, physical and mental pollution and its interconnection and eradication. He also conducts global conferences on mediation, work without worry, joy at the workplace, communication skills, secrets of success, disaster management and tension free life. Those interested in attending the conference and meditation sessions may contact Brahma Kumarisa Raja Yoga centre on 09 231727or visit them at 17 Heyman road in Suburbs, Bulawayo. @andile_tshuma