Reverend Useni Sibanda Kudzai Chikiwa, Chronicle Reporter ELEVEN political parties have signed the Ukuthula/ Runyararo/ Peace Covenant Pledge. This was done during a Churches Convergence Peace March in Bulawayo on Thursday. The march was co-ordinated by Zimbabwe Churches Alliance, Zimbabwe Council of Churches and Zimbabwe Divine Destiny to promote peace before, during and after the July 30 harmonised elections. The parties represented included Zanu-PF, MDC-T, the Mthwakazi Republic, Zapu, People Rainbow Coalition, People Coalition and independent candidates. European Union (EU) international observers, 18 bishops from different churches, Habakkuk Trust and some local observers were part of the peaceful march. “The Ukuthula/ Runyararo/ Peace Covenant is a pledge which politicians make with the overall objective of contributing to a violence free environment for sustainable peace in the pre and post electoral context,” said the Director for Zimbabwe Church Alliance, Reverend Useni Sibanda. “This is not a political campaign but an engagement of churches, political parties and independent commissions on a march to advocate for a peaceful environment during and after elections.” “Zimbabwe has a history of violence  during election periods and many innocent souls have been lost because of political differences. “This year we are saying as brothers in Christ we need to hold peaceful, transparent and credible elections.’’ Bishop Dimingo from the Methodist Church urged people to maintain a peaceful environment. “Let’s vote in a peaceful way such that even after elections we may be able to relate to each other as brethren,’’ he said. Politicians commended the efforts of the church leaders to bring them together for peace. “We are happy that the religious fraternity has acknowledged the need to have peace and tranquility and create a safe atmosphere ahead of the 2018 harmonised elections which we look forward to be free and fair,’’ said one of the politicians. This event marked the first election peace march in Bulawayo since the 2000 harmonised elections The Zimbabwe Churches Alliance has scheduled similar marches for Midlands on Monday, Matabeleland North and Matabeleland South on Tuesday. The signing of the peace covenant signified the commitment of politicians to preserving peace in Zimbabwe especially in a period where Zimbabwe is heading towards the 2018 harmonised elections. This is in support of President Mnangagwa who on many occasions has advocated for peaceful elections despite people’s different political affiliations. — @tamary98