Jose Mourinho Cape Town – Jose Mourinho is readying himself for another stop-start season from Antonio Valencia after the Manchester United captain limped off against San Jose Earthquakes. The Ecuador international, who has taken over the armband from Michael Carrick on a permanent basis, lasted just seven minutes of his team’s pre-season friendly at the Levi’s Stadium on Sunday. Valencia missed eight games for United last term due to injury, and Mourinho expects more of the same in the 2018/19 campaign after his latest problem. “He is injured,” the Red Devils boss confirmed to MUTV. “And I think we need to get used to it because last season he was already in this kind of situation and probably this season we will have more than that.” With new signing Diogo Dalot ruled out until September with an injury of his own, Matteo Darmian is the only recognised right-back in Mourinho’s squad ahead of the new campaign. United take on Leicester in their Premier League opener on August 10, although they still have to play Milan, Liverpool and Real Madrid in the International Champions Cup. Meanwhile, Liverpool defender Joel Matip picked up a muscle injury during the pre-season clash with Borussia Dortmund on Sunday, but the extent of the knock is unknown. The Reds lost 3-1 to manager Jurgen Klopp’s former club and Matip left the field in the first half of the International Champions Cup due to a thigh injury. Matip also suffered a thigh injury towards the end of last season, but Klopp has revealed that it is not a reoccurrence of the same problem. “It’s not the same injury, it’s another muscle, but it’s a muscle, obviously. It looks like, hopefully, only a little tear,” Klopp told the press. “We cannot say more about this now, but that’s of course the most negative thing about the day. It’s not cool. “These things can happen, but you don’t want them to happen. Maybe tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, we will know more. At this moment we only know that it was too painful to carry on.” – Sport24.