Tariro Negitare Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls AFRO-JAZZ guitarist and singer Tariro Negitare has challenged artists to live exemplary lives by engaging in community projects that are meant to transform people’s lives. Tariro Negitare, with two albums – Tariro Negitare and Chipo Changu, is a creative partner on a mental health programme run by King’s College where her role is to use creative art to influence positivity in adolescents. The programme started recently at Parirenyatwa Central Hospital and Tariro Negitare said it is already making an impact and transforming adolescents’ lives. She said she is working with a pilot group of 30 adolescents aged between 18 and 25 years. “Music has given me a tool for development. I’m currently working with King’s College of London on a mental health project at Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals where I’m their creative partner. “This engagement in mental health using different arts techniques to bring out issues in children is really helping because young people want to have fun,” she said in an interview in Victoria Falls last week. She had come to the resort to relax with her daughter Anesu. Tariro Negitare, a holder of a Masters Degree in Development Studies, said the opportunity came when she toured the United States as one of 25 ambassador artists a few months ago. “I thought I should model this in Zimbabwe and started working with students at St Peters Mbare teaching them music, movement, dance, guitar and artistic techniques and this boosted their self-esteem. I then became the creative arts ambassador working with adolescents at Parirenyatwa. “I feel many of us should do similar programmes as they help our society,” she added. Tariro Negitare said music is a seasonal industry hence artists should plan for their future and that of their families. “This industry is seasonal and it’s best to plan for the future. There are a lot of perceptions about artists but their lives are just a representation of what society is like. My advice is that as artists, we should seek knowledge from those who have experience. “We should live what we sing and live normal lives where we tell our stories the way they are without sugar coating them, this is what I am preaching to adolescents. “Artists have a different level of engagement. Their motivation is unique and can influence society. However, since artistes are in the public eye, this is the time to take things seriously and live scandal free lives,” she said. Tariro Negitare said she was enjoying motherhood and grooming 12-year-old Anesu. Her second album featured the likes of Steve and Bokani Dyer, Sam Mataure, Norman Masamba and Enoch Piriru. Tariro Negitare said she is almost done with her new offering Beautifully Broken. She has shared the stage with Brian Adams and Jamaran who helped her tour Germany. – @ncubeleon