Timothy Chiguvare Thupeyo Muleya, Beitbridge Bureau THE leader of the People’s Progressive Party (PPP) Pastor Timothy Chiguvare who is one of the 23 presidential candidates in the forthcoming harmonised elections has promised to suspend import duty for goods coming from Sadc in the first six months should he win the election. In an interview on the sidelines of his party’s roadshow in Beitbridge, the clergyman said he was confident of a “landslide victory”, saying he has better policies than the rest of the presidential candidates. Pastor Chiguvare said he had a grand plan to take Zimbabwe back to “glory days”. “Our aim is to turn around the economy and the country to its former glory so that people could be able to put food on the table. We are not into politics for name or for money. Our vision as PPP is far from politics, the whole idea is to win the elections and rebuilding of the country’s economy. My government would focus more on women and children and job creation,” he said. “If elected to lead the country, I will suspend the payment of duty on all goods imported and produced in Sadc especially Botswana and South Africa. There will be no need to our government to take money from struggling Zimbabweans when we have international business support.” Pastor Chiguvare said he would also engage investors to revamp the road and rail transport network, in the process creating over 100 000 jobs through related services. He said the country had been isolated from the rest of the world for a long time, a development which had led to lack of investment and jobs. He also commended the new political administration led by President Mnangagwa for creating a conducive environment to hold harmonised elections. The pastor said the party will field more candidates in the 2023 elections. “The government has created a good environment where people can campaign peacefully without any intimidation, though in some areas we are having our posters being defaced by political opponents. “Though we have not managed to field candidates for local government and national assembly elections, the response from the electorate is encouraging. “There is nothing which can stop the PPP from a landslide victory in the race for the Presidency. For you own information we have been on the ground since 26 December 2008,” said the clergyman.