 Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter ZANU-PF Matabeleland North Provincial chairman, Cde Richard Moyo, has said the revolutionary party is on a good footing to win all seats in the province. Matabeleland North has 13 National Assembly seats and 192 wards which are being contested. Zanu-PF won five while MDC-T got eight Parliamentary seats in the 2013 elections. Cde Moyo said the new dispensation had rekindled hope in the province which puts it in an advantage over the opposition which has been accused of failing to bring any meaningful development in constituencies held by its members. “We won five seats in 2013 and this year we are targeting a clean sweep to take all the 13 constituencies. The new dispensation has brought hope in people through a number of projects such as the Gwayi-Shangani Dam, Bulawayo-Nkayi road, Bulawayo-Tsholotsho road and Hwange Power Station hence we are ready to take back all seats as everyone has seen how the party has worked,” he said. Political parties are enjoying a peaceful environment which has been prevailing during the campaign period. Some are conducting door-to-campaigns and road shows around communities while rallies are taking place without any disturbances. Cde Moyo said lack of violence should be credited to President Emmerson Mnangagwa whose gospel since assuming the Presidency has been about observing peace. “The campaigns are very peaceful as we haven’t received any report of violence. The President spoke clearly about the need for peaceful elections and no hate speech and this is what is happening. All we are seeing just the opposition parties who are marching to disturb the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) process and to us that’s just lack of maturity because on the ground we are not seeing any sign of what they are complaining about,” he said. MDC-T presidential candidate Dr Thokozani Khupe last week held door- to-door campaigns in Nkayi, Hwange and Victoria Falls. Dr Khupe said her party was geared to win the election as she promised empowerment opportunities for all through devolution of power. Her party’s candidate for Hwange West, Mr Morgen Dube, said he has what it takes to take the seat from Zanu-PF. “I have done a lot of things for the community as chairperson of the Victoria Falls Residents’ Association and now I want your mandate to represent you in Parliament. Lingazingeli ngenja ezophinga ngoba ingaqeda ekulandileyo iyabaleka) (don’t hunt with a visiting male dog). Let’s vote for locals who have local interests,” he said. People Rainbow Coalition candidate for Tsholotsho North Mrs Roseline Nkomo said she is the only female candidate in the Constituency which enhances her chances. She said she had been on a door-to-door campaign and the electorate appreciates what she had done such as drilling boreholes to solve water problems. Zimbabwe Democratic Union candidate for Hwange Central Mr Luzibo Nyoni said his party was grateful to President Mnangagwa as they are enjoying peaceful campaigns. “My chances are very high considering that we are promising employment for locals. Us as ZDU we are servants of our people and we will be there to help them. Campaigns are going on well and we thank President Mnangagwa for this as we are able to interact with other parties’ candidates,” he said. ZDU will field 115 MP candidates countrywide and is contesting six seats in Matabeleland North. President of Mthwakazi Republic Party (MRP) Mr Mqondisi Moyo said his party, which is contesting all seats in the province except for Binga and Tsholotsho South, was enjoying peaceful campaigns. “We only had a challenge in Umguza Ward 8 where our candidate was being threatened but that was solved after we reported and as we speak all is going on well. I feel we are the party with the best chance of winning because the others have been there before and failed,” he said.—@ncubeleon