 Tafadzwa Zimoyo, Harare Bureau Zimbabwe’s white community thronged Borrowdale and Heritage Primary School polling stations in Harare to cast their ballots in yesterday’s harmonised elections. A mixture of voters arrived at Heritage Primary School polling station in Borrowdale as early as 8 am expressed excitement over the voting process which they said was peaceful. Most white voters said the voting process was different compared to previous years. They described the process as fast and smooth adding that they were surprised by the level of commitment and professionalism by the presiding and polling officers. Speaking soon after casting his vote, 83-year- old Mr Cuerden Mick said he was excited. “I started voting in 1953. I am a regular voter and have worked for the Rhodesian Government as a district administrator as the returning officer for Eastern Highlands constituency in 1963. “I am happy with the level of professionalism I have observed. The country is very peaceful, and I hope that atmosphere prevails. I arrived around 11 am and was served well,” he revealed. Mrs Maureen Moit (54) from Helensvale suburb described the 2018 harmonized election process as a success. “I think Zimbabweans have matured now compared to past years. This is my second time voting and I have noticed a lot of differences which include freedom of expression and peace in the streets. “I can declare them a success because of efficiency from the electoral committee. Not much time was wasted at the polling stations. However, this should also spread throughout the country, especially when results are announced. I will come back tomorrow (Tuesday) to wait and hear the results, but well done to Zimbabweans,” she said. The case was different for businesswoman, Mrs Tracy Hunter, who was turned away as she was not confirmed as a registered voter. Mrs Hunter said she was out of the country on a business trip during the voter’s registration and inspection period. “I am a citizen of Zimbabwe though I didn’t vote in the election. I was out of the country and I came back recently. I just tried my luck by coming here with my passport hoping to vote. Unfortunately I was turned away as they said I am not a registered voter. Better luck next time but I really wanted to vote,” she said. An 18 year old first time voter, Angelina Corzette, said she was happy that she voted summing up the experience as awesome. “I felt like a princess as I went through the process. I will not remove the ink on my finger and am going to show my friends. Some of my friends did not register to vote saying voting is for adults. I beg to differ because after being educated by our maid’s friend, I decided to register. I didn’t tell my parents though. I thought they would freak out but they were happy. My parents are away in Ireland, so I am representing them,” she said.