Dr Sydney Sekeramayi Victor Maphosa/ Mashudu Netsianda President Emmerson Mnangagwa has managed to restore the country’s dignity through his re-engagement efforts, Marondera District Senator Cde Sydney Sekeramayi has said. Cde Sekeramayi, who was the guest speaker at the Zanu-PF Eastern Region Youth Convention held in Chivhu on Saturday, commended President Mnangagwa for restoring relations with regional and the international community. “We have been in isolation for too long. President Mnangagwa is prioritising normalising relations with all nations. Everyday we witness even Western countries coming to Zimbabwe to engage in various discussions with the President. This is commendable and already the nation has retained its dignity,” said Cde Sekeramayi. He urged youths to mobilise support for President Mnangagwa and Zanu-PF to ensure a landslide victory in elections set for July 30. “Let us vote for the man who has given our nation dignity and a new face internationally. Within a short period of time signs of a better future are everywhere. “You are now political commissars, go out there and bring in more support for the President and for Zanu-PF. Play a role now for you are tomorrow’s leaders,” he said. Cde Sekeramayi challenged the youths to protect the dignity of the country and its legacy by being peaceful at all times. “We will be judged by our conduct during and after elections. Our conduct must not destroy our dignity. Yes we have genuine election observers in the country but we have also those who want to see Zanu-PF falling and they will be looking for any mistake from us so that they will discredit our elections. “Let us continue conducting ourselves peacefully. I am glad that you are conducting yourselves maturely. This is what your leaders want,” he said. Cde Sekeramayi implored youths to safeguard the national legacy by voting for Zanu-PF. “Our President, parliamentarians and councillors must win resoundingly. We want a clean sweep from our councillors up to the President. Our victory must be clear such that not even a single opposition party will call for a rerun because they will be satisfied. “Let us protect the national legacy through the ballot.” Zimbabwe will hold the 2018 harmonised elections on July 30 with 23 candidates eyeing the presidency. Meanwhile, the Minister of State for Bulawayo Provincial Affairs, Cde Angeline Masuku has implored residents to rally behind the ruling Zanu-PF and desist from all forms of violence as the country heads towards the July 30 harmonised elections. Addressing Zanu-PF supporters at an open space in Cowdray suburb yesterday, Cde Masuku said the Government was aware of the challenges residents were facing. She urged residents to be patient as the Government is working towards addressing the problems. “Bulawayo is known to be a traditional stronghold of the opposition. I therefore urge everyone to rally behind Zanu-PF so that we break that jinx and ensure that there is meaningful development for our people. Lets us all go out and campaign peacefully for Zanu-PF and shun acts of violence. We are aware of challenges facing the residents of Bulawayo, especially here in Cowdray where there are problems of sewer and water reticulation as well as poor roads,” she said. “Let me assure you that the Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister, Cde July Moyo will engage everyone when he visits Bulawayo together with Vice President Constantino Chiwenga.” Cde Masuku said the new dispensation under President Emmerson Mnangagwa has created an enabling environment for investment opportunities. “Our industries in Bulawayo have not been working but since the coming in of the new dispensation, we are now witnessing an improvement and firms such as Archer Clothing Manufacturers have reopened and we expect more factories to be  re-opened soon,” she said. Cde Masuku said President Mnangagwa has since declared Bulawayo a special economic zone, a clear sign the Government is committed to reviving the city’s industries. The Minister also commended Zimbabweans for supporting Operation Restore Legacy, which ushered in the new dispensation. “We are also proud of the support that you showed during Operation Restore Legacy. The Zanu-PF Central Committee sat down and unanimously resolved to recall the former President (Mr Robert Mugabe) who had become a liability. He bowed to pressure and subsequently resigned as Head of State and Government just when Parliamentarians were preparing to impeach him,” she said. Cde Masuku said unlike the previous regime, President Mnangagwa is a listening leader. She urged the electorate to vote for Zanu-PF, saying it was the only party capable of moving the country forward. “Our President has also pledged to reopen Ekusileni Hospital, which has been a white elephant for the past 17 years. We are in the new dispensation where things are beginning to happen and we urge you all to embrace the dawn of a new era as we move the country forward,” said Cde Masuku. She said the ruling party is geared for elections which President Mnangagwa has said would be free, fair and credible. Meanwhile, Cde Masuku said Vice President Constantino Chiwenga will visit Bulawayo on Saturday to address two rallies in Cowdray Park and Nketa. VP Chiwenga will be accompanied by the Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Minister, Cde July Moyo. @mashnets