 EDITOR — Godfrey Chipoyera (17) is an emerging entrepreneur who is into poultry farming. He rears different types of birds including broilers, guinea fowls, turkeys and free range indigenous chickens commonly referred to as ‘road runners.’ Chipoyera is a Lower Sixth student at Chinhoyi High School and he is majoring in science subjects (Biology, Geography and Animal Science). The young farmer registered the idea of starting his own business when he finished writing his ordinary level examinations in November last year.“I started my business in November last year when I finished my ordinary level examinations. “Before we left school for the long vacation our then deputy headmaster Mr Nyanzira urged us not to be idle during the vacation,” he said. “He urged us to start something of our own and he gave us many business ideas and I decided to venture into poultry farming.’’ Operating with limited space and resources, Chipoyera started rearing broilers which he supplied to a boarding school in Karoi. As business started to grow Chipoyera decided to breed other types of birds such as indigenous free range chickens, turkeys and guinea fowls. Chipoyera has three employees and employs casual workers whenever there are other pressing activities. His decision to start his own business is paying dividends. He is happy with his poultry farming business. “I am very happy I started this business at a young age,” he said. “I am the one paying for my own school fees and uniforms ever since I ventured into poultry farming. I can even assist my parents with other things.’’ The young farmer has a strong customer base in Karoi where he mainly supplies boarding schools with chickens. He also supplies his produce to both small and large-scale retailers. Chipoyera has embraced the use of plastic money to make sure that his business thrives despite the cash shortages bedevilling the country. This has proved to be a masterstroke. Chipoyera wants to take advantage of the opportunities made available by President Mnangagwa’s call for open business. He is looking forward to having a big farm in the near future where he will be venturing into animal husbandry. The young farmer has dreams of becoming a veterinary surgeon. Via email The young farmer registered the idea of starting his own business when he finished writing his ordinary level examinations in November last year