Njabulo Ncube Michael Magoronga, Midlands Correspondent The European Union Observer mission team on Thursday met Kwekwe journalists and politicians during a breakfast meeting to assess political parties coverage ahead of July 30 elections. The breakfast meeting which was organised by Zimbabwe National Editors Forum (ZINEF) saw senior journalists and politicians meeting with the EU team of Ladisalve Prochazka and Astrid Nunez to discuss the media coverage ahead of the election. During the meeting, political parties agreed that the new political dispensation had brought about a positive change which had resulted in fair treatment of political parties by the media. MDC Alliance Kwekwe Central aspiring candidate, Mr Blessing Chebundo admitted that there have been positive changes on how media operates compared to the 2013 election. “Of course there are notable changes in the way the media are reporting ahead of the July elections compared to 2013. We should give the devil his dues. The new political dispensation has brought about some notable changes,” said Mr Chebundo. He urged journalists to maintain the positive trajectory which he said may bring about desired unity and peace ahead of the harmonised elections.. “It was taboo to see an opposition leader being covered by ZTV during the Mugabe era but all that has gone. Recently our president Nelson Chamisa launched his campaign live on ZTV which is a plus,” he said. Independent candidate for Redcliff, 24-yer old Innocent Mharadze challenged journalists to cover independent candidates whom he said are being left out. “In as much as there is a change, I feel we are being shut out. The media both private and public should also cover us, the independent candidates,” he said. ZINEF National Coordinator, Njabulo Ncube said Kwekwe had been targeted for the meeting as it has the highest number of publications. “Kwekwe is both a political and media hotbed as it has the highest number of community newspapers in the country. We are however going to conduct such meetings in other places like Gweru, Masvingo, Mutare, Chinhoyi and Harare where we capacitate editors to report in a more comprehensive and inclusive manner in order to restore the credibility of the media in Zimbabwe,” said Ncube.