Zandile Ndlovu Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent Talented up-and-coming musicians in Bulawayo are being invited to attend the Loud Africa singing competition auditions that will be held at Crystal Night Club from tomorrow starting at midday. The talent show that has conducted auditions in Harare and Gweru seeks to unearth and create a big superstar from Zimbabwe. Bulawayo auditions will end on Sunday with each aspiring contestant expected to fork out $10 as registration fee. Event organisers said the show is open to musicians from all genres and $30 000 in prizes is up for grabs. The show which is being sponsored by Pablo’z Productions in partnership with African Fire Media, has radio personality and arts manager Zandile ‘The Zazalicious One’ Ndlovu, Power FM’s Hazvinei ‘DJ Chilli’ Sakarombe and singer Prayersoul among others as its judges. Vivacious presenter Rebbeca Muchenje, popularly known as Miss Becky is the show’s presenter. The Zazalicious One said they were wrapping up the Midlands auditions today. “Initially, we wanted to do two auditions, one in Harare and the other in Gweru. But when the adverts started airing on ZBCtv, we were inundated with calls from people in Bulawayo as they wanted us to come to their city. “We heeded this call and are glad to be coming to a city that possesses a lot of talent,” said The Zazalicious One. She said the journey of looking for a superstar from Zimbabwe has exposed them to the immense talent the country has. Zazalicious One however said when the auditions started, the reception was slow. “When we started people were a bit sceptical about the whole thing because some talent shows have not delivered or failed to take off. This changed when they started seeing snippets of the show on TV and social media,” she said. Once auditions are complete, Zaza said the shortlisted candidates would work with renowned musicians from Zimbabwe such as Oliver Mtukudzi and producers from South Africa such as DJ Maphorisa. “These people will train the artistes, not only on the vocal abilities but also on the business side of the music industry. This is one area that many people have been shunning but it’s very important. “They’ll be taught how to market themselves and dress among many other branding issues.” Zaza said the winner would receive a recording contract as well as a cash prize. “Our prizes include a recording contract and the recording of two music videos by renowned videographer Teekay who has worked with Nigeria’s Mr Eazi among others. We want the person not only to be marketable in Zimbabwe but also marketable in the region, Africa and possibly the world. “The winner will also go on a sponsored tour of Zimbabwe and South Africa.” Loud Africa is expected to air on ZBCtv at the end of this month with the final set to take place before December.