Cde Levi Mayihlome Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent POLICE should request the services of the army if they are failing to address the gold wars that have rocked the Esigodini community, Zanu-PF National Assembly candidate for Umzingwane Constituency, Cde Levi Mayihlome, has said. Gold wars have been recurrent in the past few years in Esigodini with the latest skirmishes occurring last week where eight people were injured with four of them hospitalised. The gold wars have been blamed for some unsolved murders in the community. In an interview yesterday following his donation of food, blankets and other medical consumables to Esigodini District Hospital, Cde Mayihlome challenged the police to engage the military if they are failing to deal with gold wars. “If  the police fail, we will request that perhaps engage the army,” said Cde Mayihlome who is also a retired Brigadier General. He said he has since met some of the perpetrators of gold wars and urged them to conduct their business in peace. “First of all we spoke to the people who are said to be perpetrating gold wars. We will be talking to the ring leaders or the gang leaders. We want to tell them that here in Umzingwane we want peace,” Cde Mayihlome said. “They came here to a peace loving community and they are our guests and when they are in our communities we expect nothing but peace. They should go about their business in peace. And we will not allow outsiders to threaten the peace that should be enjoyed by other citizens whether its women or children or other people from Umzingwane.” Cde Mayihlome said he was satisfied with the campaign progress and is confident that Zanu-PF will deliver on its electoral promises. He said Zanu-PF is seized with delivering jobs, rehabilitating infrastructure and fighting corruption among other things. Cde Mayihlome said the country under Zanu-PF was on track to economic recovery. He said the youth should position themselves to kick start life changing projects. “As for the youth, the job opportunities will be there but they must equip themselves with skills. Those that are able to do projects must seize the opportunity. We are not offering beer, we are not offering them handouts but we are offering them life skills. Skills that they will use for the rest of their lives,” Cde Mayihlome said. Already, the Government has launched the Empower Bank which will be offering loans to young people engaged in projects. @nqotshili