 EDITOR — Mr Khulani Moyo (25) is an emerging young entrepreneur who is into the manufacture of detergents, oil pressing and the processing of soya mince. He, together with his two friends Mr Frank Jonasi (28) and Mr Tafadzwa Benza (24), are the founders of a Harare-based company Ngileyo Holdings (Pvt) Ltd which was founded in June last year. Mr Moyo graduated with a Bachelor of Science Honours Degree in Biochemistry from the University of Zimbabwe and he is currently studying towards a Masters degree in biotechnology. He registered the idea of starting his own company after he graduated and could not secure employment. “I graduated in 2016 and I could not get a job,” he said. “I stayed at home for almost two years, that is when my other two friends and I decided to venture into our own business. We decided to venture into a field where we could make use of the skills we learnt in college.’’ Operating with limited resources, Mr Moyo and his friends started manufacturing detergents such as soap, toilet cleaners and dishwashing liquid. As the business started to grow they ventured into oil pressing and the processing of soya mince. Ngileyo Holdings has 20 employees, two of them are women. Mr Moyo hopes to grow the business and employ more people in the near future. His decision to start his own company is paying dividends. Mr Moyo is happy with his manufacturing company. The young entrepreneur has a strong customer base from as far afield as Mutare, Murehwa and Mhondoro where he mainly supplies boarding schools with detergents and soya mince. He also supplies cooking oil and detergents to both small and large scale traders in Harare. Mr Moyo has embraced the use of plastic money to make sure his business survives despite the cash shortages bedevilling the country. This has proved to be a master stroke. Mr  Moyo wants to take opportunities made available by President Mnangagwa’s call for open business. He is looking forward to opening more branches of Ngileyo Holdings (Pvt) Ltd nationwide. Samantha Chipoyera “I stayed at home for almost two years, that is when my other two friends and I decided to venture into our own business. We decided to venture into a field where we could make use of the skills we learnt in college’’