Bulawayo Mayor Clr Martin Moyo (centre) stresses a point to councillors during a recent tour of the Aisleby Sewer Treatment Works Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter BULAWAYO City Council has commissioned a 5,4 km glass reinforced sewer pipe as part of a programme to stop the flow of raw sewage into Umguza river. The project saw the replacement of concrete pipes which according to engineers had the potential to collapse if subjected to pressure. Engineer Sikhumbuzo Ncube said the Marvel Outflow Sewer programme is part of a project to stop water pollution. “This project was launched in 2015 after stakeholders complained that we were polluting Umguza River. Before we fixed this sewer pipe, it was blocking about 18 percent of the city’s sewerage system as the pipe had collected a lot of sand and other things over the past years,” said Eng Ncube. “We also managed to open up a way for about 6 megalitres of sewage that was flowing into the river on a daily basis.” According to Eng Ncube, a total of $951 million is needed to achieve the city’s water and sewer targets in line with its masterplan. Speaking during the commissioning of the 5,4km pipe on Tuesday, the Mayor of Bulawayo Councillor Martin Moyo said the project was supported by Government. “The city has been focused on reducing the pollution levels in Umguza River which were caused by dilapidated sewer infrastructure. I am glad that we have been able to achieve this in partnership with Government departments such as the Environmental Management Agency,” said Clr Moyo. “They have kept us on our feet to ensure that we reduce pollution levels in the Umguza River and increase the inflows into the Aisleby Plant by about eight megalitres per day.  We appreciate Governments efforts in working with the city which granted council powers to borrow about $1,9 million.” According to the mayor, contracts have been awarded for the rehabilitation of pitfall sewers that will be laid for Hlalani Kuhle residents. He also spoke on the need to have street lights. “There have been several calls to adopt solar street lights in a bid to light up the city. The provision of public lighting is critical for public safety and security,” he said. Clr  Moyo said  council was commissioning a pilot project of installing solar street lights along 10th Avenue and Masiyephambili Drive at a cost of $200 441. “I urge residents to jealously guard their investment a`gainst vandalism,” he said.—@thamamoe