Tirivashe Nheweyembwa Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter OVER $1 million is required to successfully host this year’s Zimbabwe National Youth and Paralympic Games in the Midlands province next month. Following a separation of participating ages, the Under-13s and Under-18s will compete from August 15-21, while the Under-23 category, comprising mainly tertiary institutions, security services, agricultural colleges and the open age group for the paralympic games, start their competition from August 21- 27. In a statement yesterday, Sports and Recreation Commission spokesperson Tirivashe Nheweyembwa said funding is expected from the government, participation fees and the corporate world. “A total budget of $1.1 million in cash and kind is required and this requires that we join hands and work as one people so that we make the games a resounding success. The budget will be financed through modest contributions from the government, participation fees, which have been pegged at $70 per participant and official and fundraising efforts,” said Nheweyembwa. He said fundraising efforts have been extended to district administrators within the Midlands province as well as traditional chiefs. “Our belief is that everyone has a role to play in ensuring that the games are a success and follow ups will be made with the respective offices or organisations so that they support the games.” Speaking during the final Games Assembly, Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister Raymond Kazembe called for the commercialisation of the games to remove over reliance on government for funding. Nheweyembwa said provinces had completed their teams’ entries by number, sport code and gender, adding that this process is critical, as it gives organisers in the Midlands a clear indication of how many teams and sport codes will be participating as well as allowing for proper planning on the ground. “We are happy the sport competition directors are on the ball as most of them have already submitted the rules and regulations to be applied during the course of the games, but what is currently being attended to is the issue of the competition format as well as finalising the number of technical officials, who will officiate in both the Paralympic and Youth Games. Accommodation facilities will be in and around Gweru, especially boarding schools and some tertiary institutions. It is our view that these facilities are quite decent and that they will offer some comfort to athletes. Feeding of athletes will be at their places of accommodation and we think that this will not disrupt the games’ programme,” said Nheweyembwa. The provinces will participate in two blocks, with Block 1 essentially catering for the Under-13 boys and girls in football, athletics, netballs and tennis. This is meant to ensure that those sport codes are developed from grassroots level to the elite and they are part of the Podium Performance Programme (PPP) that the country adopted sometime ago. Owing to lack of heated pools in the Midlands, there has been an agreement with the Zimbabwe Aquatic Union not to have swimming competition because FINA regulations stipulate that if there is no heated pool, minimum temperatures must be 26°c and this cannot be achieved in Gweru as the temperatures will be much lower.