President Emmerson Mnangagwa Blessings Chidakwa in Kadoma PRESIDENT Mnangagwa is today expected to officiate at the commissioning of the refurbished Kadoma General Hospital, which recently received a $2,5 million facelift, with platinum giants Zimplats providing the funding. The President is also expected to address a rally at Rimuka Stadium in the city. President Mnangagwa’s visit to Kadoma is the second to Mashonaland West this week after he addressed a highly subscribed rally at the Chinhoyi University of Technology sports grounds on Tuesday. In an interview yesterday, Zanu-PF provincial secretary for the commissariat Cde Simon Mambo Solomon said all was set for the big day. “We have prepared well for President Mnangagwa’s visit tomorrow (today) and at least 30 000 people are expected to attend the mega rally,” he said. Kadoma General Hospital medical superintendent Dr Frankson Masiye yesterday said all was set for the commissioning of the renovated hospital. “Everything is moving as planned ahead of the commissioning of the hospital tomorrow,” he said. The funding from Zimplats saw the hospital receive a major facelift. The medical institution was built in 1932 and had turned into an eyesore with most of its infrastructure collapsing over the years. The timely intervention by Zimplats has seen water being restored to the medical institution while two boreholes were drilled and equipped. The boreholes have the capacity to meet the hospital’s potable water needs. Ablution and sewer facilities which broke down in 2005 were also repaired. The refurbishment also included the resurfacing of feeder roads to the hospital including construction of a new perimeter fence. A new laundromat with modern washing machines, driers and ironing equipment was also built at Kadoma General Hospital, while a state-of-the-art kitchen is now available at the medical institution. Meanwhile, members of the Zanu-PF Youth League yesterday embarked on a clean-up campaign in Kadoma City ahead of the President’s visit. Zanu-PF provincial Youth League commissar Cde Tapiwa Chitate blamed MDC-T run Kadoma City Council for failing to clean the city. “We are dismayed by the level of filth in Kadoma and the MDC-T run local authority is sleeping on duty,” he said. “We had to organise a clean-up campaign as youth ahead of the visit by our President.” The City of Kadoma has been affected by lack of service, a situation that has seen some areas going without proper refuse collection and sanitation facilities.