 Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE National Darts Association of Zimbabwe (Ndaz) has, with immediate effect, introduced provincial and national sport colours in conformity with the Zimbabwe National Sport Colours Policy. In a notice to the provincial leadership recently, Ndaz secretary-general Stephen Mwarindira said the colours must be registered with the SRC. According to the notice, Matabeleland North’s provincial colours will be a dominant navy blue and minor white, with Victoria Falls as its emblem. Bulawayo will have black and white with a shield and arrow as its emblem, while Matabeleland South’s official colours will be a dominant sky blue and minor white, with the sable its emblem. Harare’s colours will be a dominant white and minor green, with the lion as its emblem, while Midlands will don red and white colours and have the leopard as its emblem. Masvingo will have mauve and purple with the Great Zimbabwe as its emblem and Manicaland will be dominant black and minor gold, and the aloe as its emblem. Mashonaland West, the home of the country’s greatest ever darts player David Nyemba, will wear dominant gold and minor white and the rhino as its emblem. Mashonaland Central’s emblem will be the maize cob, while their colours are bottle green and gold. Mashonaland East will wear dominant emerald green, with minor white and the eagle as its emblem. “All provincial colours as stated above are to be registered with the SRC before use. Blazer or jacket in provincial colours as given above (with dominant colour as dominant). Blazer or jacket embroidered with registered provincial badge located on the left breast/pocket. Provinces shall design their badges to specifications and register them with the SRC. The size of the badge shall be designed to fit in space measuring 84mm (length) x 80mm (width). Provinces shall design their shirts, blouses, trousers, neck ties, slacks, dresses and skirts based on approved colours,” wrote Mwarindira. He implored provinces to ensure their kit is made to specific size. “Provincial playing kits shall be made from the registered provincial colours and shall have their registered badges placed on the left breast/pocket. The name of the province shall be placed immediately below the badge,” wrote Mwarindira. According to the National Sport Colours Policy, the name of the sport code shall be placed immediately below the name of the province. The placement of the sponsors’ logo(s) shall be determined by the specifications of the sport code.