 Harare Bureau CHEF de mission for Team Zimbabwe at the ongoing African Youth Games in Algiers, Algeria, Sebastian Garikai, says they are on track after the rowing team picked four medals. The tem also qualified for two slots at the upcoming Youth Olympic Games. The Games are running until July 28 and for rowing, Kenneth Raynor, led the way by claiming a gold medal in the junior men 2000m single scull. He grabbed a slot for the Youth Olympic Games set for October in Argentina. Lorryn Bass came second to pick silver in the junior women 2000m single scull, also booking a slot at the YOG. The pair of Savannah Hendrickse and Taurai Madziva were third in the junior women 2000m pairs event to settle for bronze. Zimbabwe has a team of 37 athletes competing in seven disciplines – athletics, archery, equestrian, hockey (boys and girls), judo, rowing and triathlon. The rowing team was expected back home yesterday after completing their events. Speaking from Algeria, Garikai said they were impressed with the results they have posted so far. “Great performances are being witnessed from all sport codes here in Algeria by Zimbabwean athletes,” he said. ”They are good sports ambassadors of our country and have won the hearts and support of the locals here through the way they carry themselves. “The athletes are playing and performing with both passion and pride for our nation. The competitions here are tough and we are progressing well in all competitions. “Rowing has managed to produce the best results so far for Team Zimbabwe through perseverance and a never-say-die attitude with the young Kenneth Raynor conquering the rest of Africa for our great nation, winning a gold medal. “The rowers have put our country on the map and we are proud of them qualifying two slots to the Youth Olympic Games for Team Zimbabwe.” Garikai said they are still hopeful of more positive performances from the remaining disciplines that still have ongoing competitions. “Let’s celebrate the performance. It’s still game on here as we have athletics, hockey girls, equestrian and triathlon left to showcase what our nation has to offer in comparison with the rest of Africa,” said Garikai. The girls hockey team is still in the race for qualification after they beat Algeria 10-0 yesterday. They face South Africa today in the semi-finals. In athletics Donovan Mutariswa had a good day yesterday on the tack, coming second in 100m with a time of 10.65s to qualify for the semi-finals. In Judo Zimbabwe were represented by Michaela Henderson and Majaji Musariri. Henderson was sixth in the girls Under-52kg while Musariri managed fifth position in the boys Under-66kg weight division. They are already back home.