Yemurai Ushamba, Chronicle Reporter INFORMATION dissemination is vital for Zimbabweans to be actively involved in preserving the environment and enhancing food security for present and future generations, an official has said. Environmental Management Agency (EMA) Matabeleland North manager Mrs Chipo Mpofu- Zuze told villagers that attended a belated World Environment Day celebrations held at Nabusenga Primary school in Kalungwizi ward under Chief Siabuwa in Binga District last Friday that it was crucial for communities to protect the environment in order to enhance food security. Recent weather extremes that have resulted in unpredictable rainfall patterns, unbearably high or low temperatures have been blamed on environmental degradation and pollution that has in turn eroded the ozone layer protecting the earth. The World Environment Day is celebrated on June 5 every year and the Binga belated clebrations were funded by UKAid and CAFOD. The world wide celebrations were held under the theme “Beat the Plastic Pollution” and Binga district had their local theme which was “Dam Catchment Area Protection is a Responsibility for all.” Mrs Mpofu-Zuze said plastic pollution and severe siltation of dams was hindering economic progress in the communities and threatening food security. She called for zero tolerance to littering. Mrs Mpofu-Zuze said besides polluting the environment, plastics block water and sewer reticulation systems affecting the free movement of sewerage, which may end up in homes, where it promotes breeding of diseases. “Livestock die after eating plastics. I understand last year production in this area went down due to severe siltation of the Nabusenga dam,” she said. The event was organised by Caritas Hwange Diocese, an organisation under Caritas Internationalist (CI), a worldwide federation of the Catholic Church relief and development organisations. Its main purpose is to carry out community developmental and humanitarian work involving deprived children, their families and communities in order to improve their economic and social status. @YUshamba