Mr Morris Mpala Shamiso Dzingire, Business Reporter A GROUP of National University of Science and Technology (Nust) students have designed a software application that allows consumers to buy Liquefied Petroleum (LP) Gas from the comfort of their homes. The application, which is called “Need Energy Express” was invented by the Nust Enactus club and was inspired by the inaccessibility of LP  Gas particularly in high density suburbs. Speaking to Business Chronicle, club secretary general, Miss Nyasha Ncube said they partnered with local gas retailers to supply gas on                            demand. “We identified a number of problems that affect LP gas consumers and these are mainly inaccessibility and safety. People residing outside town are forced to travel to the city centre to purchase gas mainly because they don’t trust local gas agents and it is cheaper in the city centre,” said Miss Ncube. “So this application allows people to order gas via SMS or Whatsapp. We divert the order to a franchised and registered gas retailer who collects the canisters for refill and the buyer pays on delivery through mobile money transfer or cash. This mobile application also verifies the supplier and the buyer.” To curb safety concerns arising from using LP Gas, the students have also invented gas leak detection and monitoring device called “Memeza”. Miss Ncube explained that the device, which is installed near the gas cylinder, is important because LP Gas is highly inflammable and if not handled with care it can cause serious injuries and even death. “If the Memeza device detects a gas leak, it beeps and an SMS notification is sent to your phone. If you are not at home for example, you can then alert the relevant authorities to attend to the leak,” said Ms Ncube. Apart from detecting gas leaks, the device, which is still at prototype level, also levels the amount of gas left in the gas tank. “The device alerts you when your gas is low, and based on your history of gas usage, it then estimates the number of hours that the remaining gas will run for. You can then place your order before running out,” she said. MOB Capital Limited, a local micro-finance institution, which specialises in lending, insurance and advisory services to start up businesses, has pledged to support the group to realise their vision. Managing director Mr Morris Mpala said they will mentor, fund and advise Nust Enactus so that their invention translates into money. “We are trying to make them see the money because having an invention or a prototype does not automatically translate into profit making. “This is where we come in, to nurture them, monitor them and where possible fund them,” said Mr Mpala. — @ShamisoDzingire