Stephen Mwarindira Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE National Darts Association of Zimbabwe (Ndaz) is leaving no stone unturned in its preparations for the African Union Sports Council Region 5 Darts Championship set for Malawi next month and has appealed to the corporate world for donations in cash or kind. A team of 18 players have been selected for the competition that will be held at Lake Malawi from August 27-31 and to date eight countries, Botswana, Namibia, Lesotho, South Africa, Swaziland, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Malawi, have confirmed participation. Ndaz secretary-general Stephen Mwarindira told Chronicle Sport that while the team is already in place and they were sending their begging bowl for assistance to enable them to send a full strength squad without any hindrance. “Issue of sponsorship is hitting hard on us hence we are appealing to the corporate world to assist. Even if we get a dollar, it will make a difference to our coffers. We are making follow ups on all letters we wrote to prospective sponsors,” said Mwarindira. Team Zimbabwe is expected to depart for Malawi on August 25, according to Ndaz president Meynard Moyo. The selected players were chosen at the recently held Zimbabwe darts trials in Munyati. Among those selected into the team are four promising youngsters, who include the Matabeleland South duo of Brandon Ncube and Siphindile Moyo, who are pupils of Gwanda High School. “We will have our last analysis of the players when we hold our National Closed Darts tournament at Chipindura High School in Bindura from August 10-14. We will take that as our first camping,” said Mwarindira. Zim men’s team Salesio Gunda (Manicaland), David Nyemba (Mash West) Simon Mujuru (Mash West), Caleb Sigauke (Manicaland), Michael Chikomba (Midlands), Modokai Dheka (Harare) Women’s team Sibabone Mamwiri (Midlands), Sawujadi Phiri (Mat South),Tabeth Zhoya (Midlands), Svodai Nyika (Harare). Veterans teams Men: Peter Mulukula (Mash East), Moses Ndlovu (Bulawayo). Women: Cecilia Nzonzo (Harare),Joice Mloyi (Midlands) Youth Teams Junior men: Nashe Murambi (Harare), Brandon Ncube (Mat South). Junior women: Sibongile Nomsa Kagodora (Harare), Siphindile Moyo (Mat South)