 Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter A POACHER who shot and killed a game ranger at Nottingham Estate in Beitbridge District after he was cornered while checking on his snares, has been sentenced to 15 years in jail. Bino Ndou (42) of Ndambe village in the border town shot Edmore Ndou (28) once on the right thigh resulting in him bleeding to death. Bino had been cornered by three rangers while checking on his snares on the estate. He was convicted of murder with constructive intent by Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Thompson James Mabhikwa in connection with Edmore’s death. In passing sentence, Justice Mabhikwa said the courts have a duty to uphold the sanctity of human life through passing deterrent sentences. “The courts have repeatedly emphasised the sanctity of human life. In this case a relatively young life was needlessly lost and the courts will once again express revulsion on behalf of society over such conduct exhibited by the accused person on the day of the shooting,” said the judge. He condemned Ndou’s actions, saying an innocent life of a young man was lost in the course of duty. “Instead of staying steadfast in the path of good virtues, he (Ndou) was himself snaring animals. Imprisonment is clearly unavoidable and accordingly, the accused is sentenced to 15 years imprisonment,” ruled Justice Mabhikwa. Prosecuting, Ms Nonhlanhla Ndlovu said on April 22 last year at around 10AM, Edmore and his two fellow game scouts, Jeffrey Ncube and Petros Moyo, were on an anti-poaching patrol at Nottingham Estate when they came across snares. They lay in ambush the following day during which Ndou arrived at around 10AM to check on his snares. The rangers ordered him to surrender, but Ndou, who was armed with a shotgun branded Remington 870 Express Magnum, ran away. The three game scouts advanced towards the accused person but he outpaced them and hid behind some shrubs. “Upon seeing the game scouts, Ndou cocked his rifle and pointed it at the trio. The three game scouts, however, continued charging towards him and he ran towards Mutshilashokwe River and hid in the shrubs prompting the three men to conduct a search,” said Ms Ndlovu. Edmore spotted the accused person who immediately opened fire and hit him on the right thigh. The deceased fell on the ground and bled profusely and Ndou fled from the scene. Moyo, who was nearby, heard the gunshot and rushed to the scene. @mashnets