Ayepyep Lifestyle Lounge owner DJ Sumbody CHRISTMAS bonuses should come in July. Why? Because if you want to play among the fortunate few at the Durban July today, you must have lots of money. It’s an expensive exercise to play among the elite, including “blessers” and celebrities. And for starters, a standard economic air ticket to get to the races from Jo’burg, is on average R2 800 one-way. Accommodation close to the Greyville Racecourse will cost a minimum of between R1 500 to R3 000 for a standard room per night, depending on when you make your booking. Then there’s the timeless fashion piece — some will not admit they get sponsored — that can cost a small fortune depending on which designer you prefer to stitch you up. And if you want to impress the right people, you must be seen in the right marquee. Gagasi FM will again take their Red Star Experience to the races with manager Khulekani Shandu saying they have pulled out all the stops to ensure their marquee becomes one of the best on the day. The station has assembled some of Mzansi’s top musicians such as Brenda Mtambo, Mondli Ngcobo and Max Hoba to give their guests an unforgettable experience. “We have Pongrácz as our alcohol category partner. They will be setting up a bubbly garden as part of the experiential offering at the marquee. The great part about it is that it will be accessed by all guests from general access ticket holders to VIPs and VVIPs,” he said. If it’s Pretoria culture you want, Ayepyep Lifestyle Lounge is where you need to be. Owner DJ Sumbody said Ayepyep means the height of celebration and the lifestyle concept was based on their hit song of the same title featuring Tira, Thebe and Emza. “We specialise in great South African cuisine and the most incredible night life experience. I don’t think the Ayepyep experience can be described, the vibe must be experienced,” Sumbody said. “Pretoria is a diverse city as it combines different types of people with different languages. But when we are all celebrating and having a good time we communicate in one language which is ‘Sepitori’. “We live a life of our own and we are comfortable in our setting, which is what makes us distinctive. We respect one another, from Soshanguve to Atteridgeville and Mamelodi. So it’s important for us to promote our Pretoria culture in KZN because their province loves us,” he said. Sumbody added that they have partnered with brands such Hennessy, Moët, Amstel and Ice Tropez to make their vision come alive. “We expect our elite clients including Fistaz Mixwell, DJ Lamiez, Major League, B3nchmarQ, Boity, Nozi Langa, Lerato Kganyago and many others,” he said. DJ Tira will make most of the home advantage when he hosts a stylish affair in his Afrotainment marquee where a VIP 10-seater table will cost a whopping R45 000. Nellie Mhlongo from Event World will deal with logistics and setting up the venue. Mhlongo said they have a total of 30 hospitality marquees booked this year with 40 chefs and an estimated 3 500 staff on hand. She said marquee holders were expected to budget around R200 000 for the basic infrastructure package. This package includes marquee, fencing, power including generators, toilets, flooring, air conditioning (if required) as well as entrance and parking tickets. Hosts can choose their own catering and decor. “Marquee holders are encouraged to implement their own themes. We have judges to select the best, and execution plays a huge role in the judging process,” she said. Meanwhile, we’re excited — and a little afraid — to see how the fashion theme: “It is Time”, will be interpreted by race goers. One thing we know for sure is that we’re bound to see the same-old sartorial disasters we do year after year; it’s time to put a stop to it. Entertainer, Zodwa Wabantu has said Mzansi should brace itself as what she is planning for today will leave them in shock. “What people saw last year at the event is nothing,” Zodwa told the People’s Paper. I’m planning to go naked this time around. “People must embrace their bodies, in private and in public, because God gave them those bodies. And they must show them off. This year’s event is going to be nice,” Zodwa said. Last year, Zodwa was the centre of attraction, taking all the limelight from the likes of Bonang Matheba and Khanyi Mbau. It remains to be seen if she will indeed wow the crowds today. — Sowetan