 Midlands Correspondent Midlands State University Incubation Hub has developed a reusable sanitary wear for less privileged girls, two months after President Emmerson Mnangagwa officially opened it. A newly formed organisation called Purple Edge, which is a partnership between Stewart Bank, community members and the Hub yesterday launched the campaign #Padsdrivecampaign where they said  they were giving out reusable pads to less privileged girls. Speaking at the launch, Purple Edge chairperson and co-founder Ms Catherine Phiri said the reusable pads were a product developed with the assistance of MSU Incubation as they provided research, and incubation services with an aim of alleviating the plight of less privileged girls and environmental problems at large. “The result of this partnership between Stewart Bank, community members and the Hub has led to the formation of Purple Edge organisation dedicated to alleviating the plight of a girl child,” she said. “The hub assisted with researches and the development of sustainable model for production and distribution of sanitary pads.” Ms Phiri said their common goal was to provide the girl child with adequate sanitary hygiene products and reduce stigma that comes when they are in their menstrual cycle. “We are donating sanitary pads to underprivileged girls in schools and within the communities in Midlands, for free as a measure to help the girls who are failing to come to school during their menstruation cycle because they do not have sanitary pads,” she said. “During the research we realised that many girls rely on substitutes such as old rags, newspapers and cow-dug which causes discomfort and infections. Therefore, we committed ourselves to provide washable sanitary pads, which are now being used across the world.” Ms Phiri said the sanitary pads have a positive impact to the environment since the girls will be reusing the pads. She added that this act will empower girls in all communities. “We will engage in a programme where we will select some organisations to partner with to educate the girls on their personal hygiene, especially during their menstruation period,’’ she said. 