  Dashboard: Stanford Chiwanga Updates: Zimpapers Online Team 15:55 – That’s it from Gokwe. Thanks for joining us. Join is next time. 15:47 – President Mnangagwa concludes his speech. 15:46 – “We know that in Gokwe Zanu-PF has a strong support base and you will ensure that we win this election. I want to thank you so much for coming to this rally in your numbers and I really appreciate this,” 15:45 – He says the government is going to provide clean water and electricity to all communities. He also condemns corruption and urge people to report all incidences of corruption wherever they see it. 15:44 – President Mnangagwa announces that Mafungautsi Primary School will get 50 computers and the crowd cheers. 15:42 – “Here in the Midlands, we have an abundance of minerals and we know that artisanal miners are in need of support from Government and that we will do so as to make their work more efficient.” 15:40 – President Mnangagwa says Zimbabwe is reengaging countries that had cut ties with the government. 15:39 – President Mnangagwa says his Government will continue supporting cotton farmers by giving them seed and is in the process of ensuring that the cotton is beneficiated. He says this can only be done by mechanising and modernising the country’s agriculture. “Gokwe produces 50 percent of the country’s cotton and that makes you very special as you play a crucial role in the development of the country. The government will always support cotton farmers as it is committed to mechanisation of agriculture.” 15:32 -He says universities should teach programs that help development of the country 15:30 – President Mnangagwa says the new dispensation is about development. He says Zimbabwe is open for business with investors flocking into the country to search for business opportunities. 15:28 – “It is necessary that we keep teaching our children of the role played by war veterans in fighting for the liberation of the country,” 15:22 – “It is necessary that we keep teaching our children of the role played by war veterans in fighting for the liberation of the country,” 15:20 – He explains the steps taken by the new dispensation soon after his inauguration which include meeting with chiefs, churches, captains of industry and commerce among other important groups. 15:18 – The campaign journey is full of competitors that seek the mandate that we currently hold, they make the electoral field exciting,” 15:15 – President Mnangagwa now addressing the crowd. He begins by greeting the party leadership and the crowd. 15:12 – VP Chiwenga urges Gokwe residents to vote for President Mnangagwa and Zanu-PF. 15:10 – Vice President General Constantino Chiwenga (Retired) takes to the podium to introduce President Mnangagwa. He thanks Gokwe district for coming up in their thousands before narrating the President’s rich political history. Preamble PRESIDENT Mnangagwa has toured the Cotton Company of Zimbabwe (Cottco) ginnery and is now set to address a Zanu-PF rally in Gokwe North. President Mnangagwa’s tour of the Cottco ginnery follows resumption of operations under the new dispensation leading to the employment of thousands of people.  The President’s rally comes a week after Vice President Constantino Chiwenga addressed a well-attended rally at Chireya High School under Chief Chireya in Gokwe South last week.  Thousands of Zanu-PF supporters have already thronged an open space next to Mafungautsi Primary School. Stay with us for live updates of the President’s speech.