Yadah’s Ralph Mathema (left) rises with a flying challenge against Bulawayo Chiefs’s Polite Moyo during a soccer league match played at Luveve Stadium yesterday. Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter Bulawayo Chiefs 0 -1 Yadah Stars VISITING Yadah Stars collected three valuable points after downing Bulawayo Chiefs at Luveve Stadium yesterday. Leroy Mavhunga scored the solitary goal from the penalty spot in the 28th minute after Andrew Tandi was penalised for hacking down veteran striker Ralph Matema inside the box. Mavhunga exhibited composure to calmly slot the ball into the roof of the net. Both sides were eager to start the second half of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League on a high and it was the visitors who emerged hungrier. The victory was Yadah’s fifth of the season and it took their points’ tally to 21. Chiefs wasted the game’s first real chance when Gracious Muleya missed a penalty in the 13th minute. His spot kick struck the upright after referee Hardly Ndazi had pointed to the spot for a handling offence inside the box against defender Willard Kalongonda. Despite dominating play for the greater part of the game, Chiefs struggled to breach the solid Yadah defence. Yadah coach Thomas Ruzive was pleased with his side’s hard fought victory. “I think this is a good way to start the second half of the season. This is a very tricky part of the season where a number of teams are aiming to survive relegation. It is important for us to keep playing good football in our bid to survive relegation,” said Ruzive. His opposite number Garthly Chipuka was disappointed with the result. “There is not much to correct from the way we played. We dominated this game, but failed to utilise the chances that came our way. I think the break did not work in our favour because we clearly failed to get into the right gear,” said Chipuka. Teams Bulawayo Chiefs: W Chiwetu, S Nyahwa, M Mkolo, P Moyo, A Tandi, T Mazuva, G Muleya, F Matare, L Ndlela (D Chivandire 84th min), P Chikwende, C Makamba (A Musiyiwa 60th min) Yadah FC: S Chimusoro, W Kalongonda, W Chakanyuka, J Dzingai, B Madzokere, E Karembo, B Mapfumo, J Sibanda ( M Meleka 74th min), M Musiyakuvi, R Matema, L Mavhunga (J Chitereki 90th min)