 SOUTH Africa and Angola will do battle in tomorrow’s final of the 2018 Cosafa Under-17 Championships and seek a qualification place in the African Under-17 Championships set for next year in Tanzania. They were comfortable winners in their semi-finals yesterday, with South Africa disposing of hosts Mauritius 2-0 and Angola putting in an excellent second-half display to rout Namibia 7-0, the biggest victory of the tournament to date. Motlhalosi Nare netted a fine opener for South Africa before the win was sealed when Mauritian defender Yohan Dupre put the ball into his own net. Although they did have to soak up periods of pressure, it was a deserved victory for the South Africans as they created the better clear-cut chances. Sphiwe Nkabinde forced an excellent save from home goalkeeper Michel, before Nare found the opener with a neat finish that was his second goal of the tournament. Nkabinde then struck the crossbar with a thunderous drive as Amajimbos pushed for a second, but the score remained 1-0 at the break. Mauritius had a spell of pressure in the final 15 minutes as they sought the equaliser, but South Africa goalkeeper Bontle Molefe kept them at bay. The win was secured in the first minute of injury time at the end of the game when the unlucky Dupre turned the ball into his own net from Nare’s cross. Angola were held goalless in the first half of their semi-final, although they may wonder how with Osvaldo Capemba missing a number of good chances. He made amends in the second period with a hat-trick though, one from the penalty spot as the Angolans ran riot. Gaspar Morais also got his name on the score sheet, while Zito Luvumbo added a    fifth for what was his third goal of the competition. The Young Palancas Negras were not finished though as Morais added his second and Abdoul Barri provided the cherry on top with a seventh. Mauritius and Namibia will now have to pick themselves up for tomorrow’s third-place play-off to see who will claim the bronze medal. Namibia were winners of the competition 2016, while Mauritius finished runners-up last year. Semi-final results South Africa 2 (Motlhalosi Nare, Yohan Dupre og) Mauritius 0 Namibia 0 Angola 7 (Osvaldo Capemba 3, Gaspar Morais 2, Zito Luvumbo, Abdoul Barri) — Cosafa