 Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls VETERAN Blanket Mine runner Nkosiyazi Sibanda yesterday asserted his dominance of the Econet Victoria Falls Marathon when he romped home in two hours 21 minutes and eight seconds. Zambian Mathews Mutanya, who was the defending champion, was 43 seconds slower as he finished second in two hours 21 minutes and 51 seconds to surrender the title he held for one year. This becomes Sibanda’s fifth title at the annual race’s full marathon as he improved from his 2017 time of two hours 33 minutes and 35 seconds which gave him a fifth finish. In third place yesterday was Lyno Muchena who finished in two hours 22 minutes and 28 seconds. Sibanda said he had worked hard with the aim of reclaiming his title. “I started well and there were many people in front of me but I increased pace after 31 km because I felt fit this year. I feel very happy to have won,” said Sibanda who claimed it’s his 7th title at this particular marathon. He said he will now set sights on the Two Countries marathon in Beitbridge, adding that he had never tried the Comrades Marathon in South Africa because it’s too hard a race for him. Mutanya, who has participated six times, said he was disappointed that he failed to defend his title. In the females category, Olivia Chitate relegated veteran Tabitha Tsatsa when she romped home in two hours 58 minutes and 35 seconds against Tsatsa’s three hours one minute and 48 seconds. Tsatsa was the defending champion. Rutendo Mapindu and Margreth Mahohoma finished third and fourth respectively. In the half marathon, Tendai Hove finished in one hour six minutes and 42 seconds ahead of second placed Trust Chidomaya who finished nine seconds slower. Black Rhinos’ Millen Matende, who was full marathon champion in 2016, finished a distant fourth in one hour seven minutes and 13 seconds. The female half marathon category was won by Betha Chikanga who romped home in one hour 16 minutes and six seconds. Rudo Mhonderwa finished one hour 16 minutes and 17 seconds in the veterans section. The new Steward Bank team relay was won by Ngonidzashe Ncube and Isaac Mpofu whose combined time was one hour six minutes and 50 seconds for the male category while the female category went to Ileen Bvenge and Wengai Kajakacha who finished in one hour 29 minutes and 41 seconds. The mixed relay team of Laina Shambare and Blessing Mukandi finished in one hour 28 minutes and two seconds. Econet general manager (Marketing) Mellany Msengezi said next year’s event will be bigger. “We want to thank our sponsors, companies and individuals who all came to this event. Next year it will be bigger and better as we look forward to continue doubling figures,” she said. A record 4 100 runners registered and took part yesterday, up from 2 700 last year. @ncubeleon