Ayanda Wenzile Nkomo Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent SIXTEEN-YEAR-OLD Ayanda Wenzile Nkomo successfully launched her two books My Lover, My Destroyer and Words Without Actions in Bulawayo at the weekend with some copies being sold for $100. The launch was held at the Homestead on Saturday with the budding writer’s friends, family, classmates and teachers from Dominican Convent High School where she learns, in attendance. Most speakers spoke highly of Ayanda saying she was an inspiration to many young girls. Ayanda thanked her father Gorden Nkomo for his unwavering support. “My father has been my backbone as he’s been quite supportive of my passion. He’d always encourage me to write, pursue my dream, never give up and never be discouraged. For that I thank him,” said Ayanda. One of her mentors, renowned motivational speaker and author, Njabulo Moyo, held a mini book auction to raise money for Ayanda to be able to publish more books. “We want to sell these books for Ayanda to continue pursuing her passion. So in order to fuel this passion, these books should be sold to raise money for her to write more books. They shouldn’t rot on shelves at home,” said Moyo. After that, the bidding started and though it started off slow, they warmed up gradually and eventually, one of the many guests – Proline Car Services owner Never Nduru – bought one of the books for $100 alongside one Bekezela Zonde. Other books were sold for $10 to $50. Moyo said Ayanda’s book launch was testimony that there were underground female writers who need to be discovered and groomed. “The book launch was a clear reminder and call for more writers, young and old, to take charge in sharing their thoughts. Ayanda is playing her part and she can do better with community support,” said Moyo. In describing the books, Moyo said: “These laconic poems provoke, prune and inspire.” Marshal Chiza of Billionaire Publishers, Ayanda’s publishing house, said: “This book launch by Ayanda shows that Zimbabwe has got talent that needs to be nurtured like has happened with Ayanda. “The launch of Ayanda’s book must be an inspiration to other upcoming writers. Lastly her being one of the youngest writers is an inspiration to the world at large”. The books are available for sale at the Bulawayo Public Library with My lover, My Destroyer going for $8 while Words Without Actions is going for $6.