 EDITOR — Nicole Guzah (32) is an emerging entrepreneur who is into wedding planning, event coordination and decoration services. She graduated with an honours degree in Social Sciences majoring in International Relations at the Walter Sisulu University in South Africa. Guzah says when she returned back home in 2015 after attaining her degree, finding a job was hard. “When I returned to Zimbabwe after graduating jobs were scarce and one basically worked in whatever field a job was available,” she said. Guzah got a job at a wedding venue in Harare. That is where she discovered her talent and interest in the wedding planning and decoration business. Guzah got the idea of starting her own company while working at a wedding venue in Harare. ‘’I was fortunate to get a job at a wedding venue, and this brought out a talent I never knew existed in me. I had always been good at planning small functions but never on such a massive scale,’’ she said. She is now the owner and founder of Neo Royal Events Company, which started operating in October last year. Guzah told our Harare Bureau that she started Neo Royal Events with a vision of creating a one-stop shop for people who are planning weddings or events. From limited resources, Guzah started providing wedding planning, event coordination and decoration services in October last year and her business is growing each day. She employs people on a part-time basis whenever she has events. ‘’After I parted ways with my former employer I decided to venture into my own business rather than to look for another job,” she said. “God amazed me, we planned our first wedding as Neo Royal Events the first month I left my old job. It was an uphill battle, but slowly we are breaking into the events market and we are building our name and brand.’’ Guzah has embraced the use of plastic money to make sure her business thrives despite the cash crisis bedevilling the country’s economy. Her flexible payment terms through platforms like mobile banking and transfers have put her ahead of her competitors in the industry. During hard times most young people tend to lose hope but Guzah has refused to be swallowed by hopelessness. Guzah says she wants to take advantage of the opportunities made available by President Mnangagwa in this new era of hope. She also has interests in information communication technology and is hoping to venture into the sector soon. Samantha Chipoyera