Nation Dube Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Zifa Southern Region Division One League will take a two-week break after this weekend’s games and former Premiership side Hwange who are on top, want to end the first half of the season with a win. The coalminers go into the last round of the first half with 31 points, four ahead of second-placed and also ex-Premiership club Tsholotsho. Hwange are tipped to collect maximum points when they play host to Casmyn at the Colliery Stadium tomorrow while Tsholotsho are away to ZPC Hwange. “Finishing strongly with a comfortable lead will be good for us. We’re not underrating our opponents because we just want to keep on track and avoid dropping points. If we can improve on last weekend’s performance and bury the chances we create, I will be a happy person,” said Hwange coach Nation Dube. Hwange hammered Toronto 4-0 at the Colliery, a result that would have impressed any coach but Dube hit out at his players for being wasteful and challenged them to be ruthless. Casmyn head to the Colliery coming from a 2-1 home win over Zim Leopards. Joseph Sibindi, Tsholotsho’s coach, is anticipating a tightly contested encounter against ZPC Hwange. Tsholotsho should, however, be wary of the electricity generators who were beaten 2-0 by Talen Vision in Bulawayo and will therefore be out to return to winning ways. A victory for ZPC Hwange will see them ending the first half of the season on 27 points. “Every game has its own challenges and what we want is to try and wrap up the first half on a positive note. I think we’ve proved to be a competitive side and our performances have really surprised many. I want the boys to go out there and enjoy themselves,” Sibindi said. Talen Vision travel to Victoria Falls to face Mosi Rovers, who are still smarting from a 0-2 home defeat by Tsholotsho. Hwange-based Makomo will be in Bulawayo to face CIWU tomorrow afternoon while Zim Leopards host winless Toronto at Luveve Stadium on Sunday. Fixtures Tomorrow: ZRP v NRZ Leopards (Ross Camp), Hwange v Casmyn (Colliery, 12PM), Moto Moto v Bosso 90 (Mpumalanga), ZPC Hwange v Tsholotsho (Hwange, 12PM), Mosi Rovers v Talen Vision (Chinotimba), CIWU v Makomo (Crescent, 12PM), Mainline v Indlovu Iyanyathela (Plumtree) Sunday: Zim Leopards v Toronto (Luveve) Results Saturday: Hwange 4-0 Toronto, Moto Moto 1-1 NRZ Leopards, Talen Vision 2-0 ZPC Hwange, Main Line 1-2 CIWU, Indlovu Iyanyathela 3-1 Makomo, Bosso 90 0-1 ZRP Bulawayo Province, Casmyn 2-1 Zim Leopards Sunday: Mosi Rovers 0-2 Tsholotsho *Match abandoned — @ZililoR