Zimbabweans queue to vote in this file photo Stephen Mpofu For many weeks and days now airwaves in Zimbabwe have quivered and quivered, rent by election candidates eyeing July 30 and salivating over trump cards on the day of the harmonised elections. This weekend marks the end to days of reckoning with a hello to Monday when voters cast their ballots to choose new or retain old councillors; new or old members of parliament as well as the next head of state and government, watched by a global audience. Consequently, therefore, the power that the elections bestow on the voters, even though only for a day as kingmakers, should produce kings and queens to reign until the next elections, as the case may be. It is no exaggeration to suggest that the delivery of services in many a council in this country is in shambles because once ensconced in their new position the councillors either spend time feathering their nests or are incompetent to get to grips with their assignments. As a result, garbage remains uncollected for days on end so that diseases romp unscathed, not to mention streets resembling dongas fraught with accidents. Members of Parliament have weightier responsibilities thrust on their shoulders as they must deal with bigger constituencies than those of councils. In addition to collectively making laws in parliament for the entire country, MPs, among them cabinet ministers, oversee various departments in their constituencies and are therefore engines of Zimbabwe’s economic and social advancement. Overall, the elections on Monday have produced a common trait, “panicking”, among candidates especially for the top post in the land and against which a Zimbabwean scholar and die hard patriot in Bulawayo, who preferred to remain anonymous, warned this week. The scholar stated that the candidates, whom he did not name, showed signs of panicking in their campaign speeches. At one point, their rhetoric gave off an impression of one hunting with the hounds and at other times an impression of one running with the hares or some kind of confusion as to what to do precisely, he said. The scholar advised voters not to join the “panicking” candidates but instead use their trump card wisely for a candidate they are convinced will serve them and Zimbabwe prudently and diligently. The ideal typical thing expected of leaders, all leaders, is for them to demonstrate an unmitigated commitment to duty as well as unwavering faith in those who put them in positions of responsibility so that, when all things are considered these leaders pass as “men and women of the people”. Thus, when leaders walk the promises they make in their campaign trails, nothing will stop Zimbabwe from attaining her developmental goals.