 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter MATABELELAND South representatives at the 30th edition of the Copa Coca-Cola tournament, Mtshabezi and Thekwane High schools, are confident of leaving a lasting mark at the national finals set for Zvishavane tomorrow and Friday. Mtshabezi will be making a maiden appearance at the national finals of the country’s premier schools soccer tournament in the boys’ Under-15, while Thekwane will battle it out in the girls’ category. Dingani Dube, the Mtshabezi striker who scored the only goal in the provincial final against Zezani in a 1-0 win, said: “We are happy going to the Copa Coca-Cola national finals and being first timers, we have to leave a lasting mark.” His coach, Lizwi Nyathi, is hopeful he will deliver. “This is a special moment for the boys and for the school. Going for the first time, we hope to learn a lot. What I can assure you is that we will win our first game then leave the rest to fate,” Nyathi said. Thekwane are also keen to perform well in Zvishavane. “I want us to get the prize money and make our school proud. The road to the nationals wasn’t easy, but we will do our best,” said Chantel Siziba, Thekwane’s captain. Sifiso Masuku, Nash Matabeleland South head-in-charge of soccer, said they are geared up for the national finals. “I look forward to something coming to Matabeleland South and I can safely say with confidence that we are likely to make the final in Zvishavane. “The level of competition in the province has improved and I’m confident our representatives will make us happy,” said Masuku. Copa Coca-Cola finalists Boys: Prince Edward (Harare), Mpopoma (Bulawayo), Pamushana (Masvingo), Kanyemba (Mashonaland Central), Mtshabezi (Matabeleland South), Waddilove (Mashonaland East), Somvubu (Matabeleland North), Guinea Fowl (Midlands), Mandava (host), Pfupajena (Mashonaland West), Rusununguko (Mashonaland East and defending Champions), Mutare Boys (Manicaland) Girls: Vainona (Harare), Gweshe (Mashonaland Central), Thekwane (Matabeleland South), Birivenga (Masvingo), Mpopoma (Bulawayo), Chamakwanda (Midlands), Zvishavane (host), Chidyamakono (Masvingo and defending champions), Chenhuta (Mashonaland East), Simbo (Matabeleland North), Mwami (Mashonaland West), Nyamauru (Manicaland). – @ZililoR