 Officer Commanding Bulawayo province, Senior Assistant Commissioner Learn Ncube confers the rank of Assistant Inspector to Tendai Mazovere at the promotion parade for non-commissioned officers in Bulawayo yesterday. Looking on is Chief Clerk, Inspector Chamunorwa Machingura. Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter THE police force is working hard to win back public trust through various initiatives including fighting corruption that had become rampant during former President Mr Robert Mugabe’s era. In a speech read on his behalf by Officer Commanding Bulawayo province Senior Assistant Commissioner Learn Ncube at the promotion parade for non-commissioned officers in Bulawayo yesterday, Commissioner General Godwin Matanga said the force was working tirelessly to win back public trust. Comm General Matanga said the force will not hesitate to discharge police officers that engage in corruption as it strives to improve its image. “As an organisation, we are working tirelessly to win back the public trust and confidence which is the lifeblood of our existence,” he said. Comm General Matanga urged the promoted officers to be upright and committed to serving the country. He said as senior police officers, they were expected to be patriotic, professional, fair, firm, exemplary and forthright to peers and subordinates. “As you assume new badges of rank, always remember that the organisation expects you to be forthright, exemplary in your conduct, visionary, firm, fair, resourceful, professional, passionate, loyal and patriotic. You must be role models to your peers and subordinates. To this end, I enjoin you to be very quick to learn, understand and implement your new roles as first line supervisors,” said Comm Gen Matanga. He said the promoted officers were expected to diligently play their role of supervising deployments and ensuring high quality policing service to the people at all times. “Stave off the nagging temptation to abuse power for personal gain in place of public good. Avoid making this promotion an albatross and a curse to your life as it may lead to your dismissal from the Zimbabwe Republic Police,” said Comm Gen Matanga. He urged those who have been promoted to resist the temptation of using their ranks to engage in corruption as doing so would cut short their careers within the ZRP. “You must shun the temptation to engage in acts of corruption. The organisation will not be lenient to all those who choose to be corrupt and once caught on the wrong side of the law, you will certainly be discharged from the force,” said Comm Gen Matanga. He urged the newly promoted leaders in the police force to treat subordinates with respect and demonstrate good leadership. The police chief said while supervision is ordinarily the act of getting subordinates to perform predetermined tasks, leaders still need to treat subordinates with respect. “You need to cultivate a culture of team spirit and consultative leadership because promotion does not grant you the passport to tyranny, selfishness, grandstanding and settling personal scores. Therefore you need to be firm, fair, impartial and disciplined,” said Comm Gen Matanga. The Comm General said the police took gender mainstreaming seriously hence the promotion of female officers. He said the promotion of more females was in harmony with the organisation’s desire to ensure 50/50 gender parity in all policing endeavours. A total of 588 male officers and 558 females were promoted to ranks ranging from sergeant to Assistant Inspector. — @andile_tshuma