Mr Hery Rajaonarimampianina Prosper Ndlovu in LUSAKA, Zambia HEADS of State and Government attending the 20th Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (Comesa) underway here have resolved to bring to an end reliance on raw commodity exports by harnessing digital technologies and value addition to derive leverage from the region’s abundant natural resources. In speeches during the opening of the summit here at the Mulungushi International Conference Centre, the leaders acknowledged that Comesa and Africa at large was losing substantial value and job opportunities through raw commodity trading. The gathering was agreed that for the region’s economy to take-off, member states should work together within the framework of economic integration to structurally transform their economies towards high-value products and harmonising their production systems to derive economies of scale that can match global competition. Zambia President and host, Edgar Lungu, said for Comesa to make an impact in the global economy it should ride on value addition and digital technologies, which will scale up the bloc’s competencies and average earnings beyond mere food stability. “We cannot continue to trade in raw commodities among ourselves, while relying on markets outside the African continent to supply us with finished products from our very own resources obtained from our region,” said President Lungu. “Our goal should not be limited to assisting individuals to have food on the table, but to create a conducive environment, which will enable our private sector to generate the necessary financing to invest in value addition and make our region a hub for manufactured products.” Chairperson of the Comesa Authority who is also Madagascar President, Hery Rajaonarimampianina, in his key-note address concurred and stressed the need to preserve peace and stability as an anchor to the success of regional economic integration. He noted the strides made in ending conflict in countries such as South Sudan, as a major win for progress and development within the region. Going forward, the leaders pledged to enhance efforts towards creating vibrant economies whose benefits will be shared equally across the region and within respective communities. Malawi President Professor Peter Mutharika weighed in, reminding the gathering how Comesa was formed out of the Preferential Trade Area (PTA) some years ago, with envisaged continental economic integration vision, in which sub- regional economic groupings will be used as building blocks. He said Malawi, as one of the founding member states, will play her role and ensure the Comesa team wins the battle towards economic an integration that benefits all. “What we have always wanted is attaining a deeper integration as a means to social and economic progress in the region. We have learnt that there are times we achieve more by cooperating more than competing,” said Prof Mutharika. “That does not contradict the fact that competition is in the human nature and we will always compete. Competition within the broader spirit of regional cooperation is as possible as our unity in diversity. “Let me pledge that Malawi will always play its role as member state of this organisation. We believe in being a team player.” A senior official from Rwanda, who represented President Paul Kagame, said Rwanda believed in the drive towards an expanded regional market that will give Comesa and Africa at large room for economic growth. The official told the gathering that his country was already seized with implanting investment reforms to position the country for increased economic growth within the regional integration model. The country is said to be running initiatives towards digitalisation across sectors. Similarly, Zimbabwe is undertaking reforms under the new political dispensation led by President Mnangagwa to steer investment under the “Zimbabwe is open for business” mantra, which has so far seen a review of major investment policies to enhance ease of doing business. Presidential Affairs Minister Cde Simbarashe Mumbengegwi, who represented President Mnangagwa at the on-going indaba, also said Zimbabwe will play its part and work together with her peers to achieve economic transformation. Harare has already domesticated value addition and beneficiation within its economic model. The summit delegates acknowledged that technology was a vital catalyst for accelerated growth and noted the need to set up the right institutions and channel resources and capabilities to ensure realisation of that dream. “We, therefore, have a challenge before us to put in place necessary support structures and resources to ensure that our economies are not left behind in this digital age,” added President Lungu.