Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe National Youth and Paralympics finals’ Games Assembly kicked off in Gweru yesterday with delegates inspecting competition and accommodation facilities to gauge their state of preparedness. The assembly brings together provincial general managers from the 10 geographical provinces and sport directors from 19 sport codes, members of the local organising committee, the provincial Sport and Recreation Development Committee, Sports and Recreation Commission as well as officials from the Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation. The broader purpose of the assembly is to conduct a final inspection of the competition venues and accommodation facilities, to agree on the games’ format, which include the games’ rules and dispute resolution procedures and the general logistical plan to support the sporting jamboree. The delegates will make suggestions for improvement before the commencement of the games that will be held in two blocks next month. “This visit is coming at an opportune time because this is exactly a month before the games and it is our conviction that there is ample time for the LOC to ensure that all the ducks are in a row between now and then. The visit is also meant to ensure that the SRC and Ministry of Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation have a better appreciation of the situation on the ground and possibly make interventions where they may be required and avoid a last minute rush,” said Tirivashe Nheweyembwa, the SRC spokesperson. The LOC is expected to give a state of preparedness update and the same will be expected of the sport competition directors, who will present the format, rules and regulations to be applied during the games. According to Nheweyembwa, it will be the duty of the assembly to ratify the games’ format, rules and regulations and the number of technical officials each sport code will require. “The overall rules and regulations together with the dispute resolution procedures will be presented by the games’ project manager Martin Dururu, while Shepherd Mukanhairi, the SRC’s provincial coordination and recreation manager, will cap it by working with the assembly to develop the remaining critical milestones, which all stakeholders have to meet before coming to the Midlands province for the games,” said Nheweyembwa. For the first time in the history of the annual games, the Under-13s will take part in athletics, football, netball and tennis, and will run in two blocks, with Block 1 being for Under-13s and Under-18s, while the Under-23s, who include tertiary institutions, agricultural colleges and security services will complete the table of participants. It is also the first time the Zimbabwe National Youth Games will run concurrently with the National Paralympic Games. “These two platforms will be used as a basis to gauge the athletes’ performance for the upcoming African Union Sports Council Region 5 Under-20 Youth Games set for December in Gaborone, Botswana,” said Nheweyembwa. The games will run from August 15-21 for the Under-13s and Under-18s, while the Under-23s and open category will compete from August 22-29. Midlands Provincial Affairs Minister Owen Ncube and Youth, Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister Kazembe Kazembe are expected to address the assembly today. 