 Farirai Machivenyika, Harare Bureau ZANU-PF is set for a thunderous victory in the forthcoming elections scheduled for July 30 and party cardres should observe peace during the campaign period and towards elections observers. This was said by President Mnangagwa while addressing thousands of the ruling party’s supporters at Chinhoyi University of Technology grounds yesterday. President Mnangagwa, who is also the ruling party First Secretary, said the revolutionary party would win the election transparently. A number of foreign observers are already in the country ahead of the polls. “We have foreign observer missions and I am saying to you my fellow Zimbabweans that we are a peaceful people, we want a non-violent campaign, we want a peaceful process of our election, we want a transparent and credible election. This we can achieve and up to now we are campaigning and no party has been denied the opportunity to do so,” President Mnangagwa said. He said he was one of the 23 candidates contesting the presidential election and they all have the chance to campaign on national television. “We have 23 presidential candidates and I am one of them and everyone is being given a chance to campaign on TV. It is all happening. That is what we call the new dispensation with space for all political leanings in our country. “So when observers come welcome them with warm hearts and warm hands. We want them to know that we have nothing to hide, we are transparent, we are winning these elections through the ballot box, we will win these elections hands down, a thunderous victory for Zanu-PF is in the making,” he said. President Mnangagwa said the party was already preparing for the victory celebrations. “We should prepare for the victory celebrations because everywhere you point on the map of Zimbabwe Zanu-PF is there. You go east Zanu-PF is there, you go West Zanu-PF is there, you south Zanu-PF is there, you go north Zanu-PF is there and among the young ones the party is there even among the elderly in various household. “There is nowhere in Zimbabwe where you will not find Zanu-PF, victory is certain, victory is certain. So I am saying on July 30 let us all go out to vote. “Together we will rebuild our nation together, we will rebuild a new and better Zimbabwe for all, a nation with better jobs, better accommodation, better life and prosperity so that we will be appreciated by future generations to come,” He urged Zimbabweans to ignore calls by the MDC Alliance aimed at fomenting violence and instability in the country. “Do not be distracted by some individuals and small parties who are trying to foment violence, just ignore them. We do not want to fight them, we are too big to be worried about these small little groups. “They go making noise in the press and not around the country because they know they do not have support in the country. On the 30th of July they will know who has the largest following in the country. “It is the party that was anointed by God (that has the largest following). God has not forsaken this party,” said President Mnangagwa. The Zanu-PF First Secretary reiterated that no individual was bigger than the party and called for unity among members of the revolutionary party. “Zanu-PF is a party with a history and no individual is bigger than the the party. We can all fit into Zanu-PF whether big or small, rich or poor young or old. “All the leaders sitting here in front should also know that they derive their authority from the people so they should respect the people,” he added.