Thulani Sibanda Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter BULAWAYO Chiefs are closing in on the Zim Leopards trio of defender Lee Matizirofa, midfielder Nollen Ndlovu and striker Tambudzai Ngulube as replacements for players they’ve lost during the current mid-season transfer window. Chiefs were hit by a player exodus, losing goalkeeper Kelvin Nyoni to Bulawayo City, midfielder Talent Mandizadza to Northern Region Division One league leaders Beta XI, defensive midfielder, Brighton Manhire to South African First Division side Mbombela United and linkman Barnabus Mushunje to Northern Region team Golden Valley. Chiefs bade farewell to central defender Polite Moyo after the 0-0 draw against Harare giants Caps United, as he moved to championship hopefuls Ngezi Platinum Stars. Thulani Sibanda, Chiefs’ technical analyst, said they’re impressed with the trio of Matizirofa, Ndlovu and Ngulube, who have been training with them for a week. “If all the paperwork goes through, we should be registering three players. We need to reinforce to fight for our survival. We’ve lost some players and there are no guarantees that we might keep most of the boys, but what’s important is for us to try and ensure we have a team of players that will fight for our survival. It will be a bit challenging, but I feel we’re up to the task,” said Sibanda. Chicken Inn are reportedly interested in the Chiefs’ duo of attacking midfielder Perfect Chikwende and striker Farau Matare, while playmaker Arthur Diego Musiyiwa is being linked with a move to Dynamos. There are also indications that Bulawayo City are planning another Chiefs raid, this time coming for Young Warriors utility player Shadreck Nyahwa, who can play in central defence, at left-back or as a defensive  midfielder. Should the trio of Matizirofa, Ndlovu and Ngulube complete registrations, they could feature in Bulawayo Chiefs’ derby with Bulawayo City at Luveve Stadium tomorrow. With both teams coming from weekend draws; Chiefs playing to a goalless draw away to Caps United, while City where held 1-1 by Harare City, an explosive encounter is on the cards as the three points at stake have a bearing on the relegation battle. — @ZililoR.