Police Commissioner General Godwin Matanga Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent POLICE Commissioner General Godwin Matanga has pledged to address resource challenges being faced by the police force to ensure the force is able to effectively service the public. Speaking to senior police officers from Matabeleland South Province in Gwanda yesterday Comm-Gen Matanga said one of the reasons why he visited the province was to identify challenges faced by police officers. “I’m equally aware of the challenges that are negatively impacting our policing efforts. However, I’m quite gratified by the commitment and also confident of the steps being taken by Government to improve the conditions of service for the police. “On my part I shall continue to engage and lobby Government for the provision of modern tools of trade consistent with the contemporary and mutating policing terrain,” he said. Comm-Gen Matanga assured members of the public that the police had taken measures to heighten their level of vigilance to ensure safety and security of the public ahead of the elections. He urged all stations to increase awareness campaigns discouraging all citizens from engaging in politically motivated violence. He said several strategies had been put in place to further equip police officers. “As police we should work to attain the highest level of police-public confidence and cooperation. All existing crime management strategies and several others which may be crafted as demanded by circumstances must be effectively implemented. “As a province you must work extremely hard to curb smuggling which is rife along the entire stretch of the borderline within which you police. I am quite aware of the challenges that are inherent in policing the borderline due to its porous nature,” he said. Comm-Gen Matanga said measures had been put in place to tackle corruption within the police force at all ranks. He urged members of the force to maintain their integrity. “Let me also stress that my office is no refuge for police officers whose actions make a mockery of our police motto. If anyone among you has forgotten that we are for the law, for the country and for the people then such an individual is working at cross purposes with the organisation and naturally has no place in our organisation. No one is above the law and that includes the police. The drive to end corruption will not spare anyone, be it a member of the public or police force,” said Comm-Gen Matanga. He said as the police force was going through a re-engagement and reinvigoration phase to win back public confidence, there was a need for officers to respect members of the public and always be responsive to their needs. Comm-Gen Matanga urged the police to improve their police patrol units as police visibility was crucial in reducing crime. He said the patrols had to be well planned, adequately supervised and members had to be periodically rotated. @DubeMatutu