 Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief TWO senior officials of the MDC Alliance in Shurugwi town traded insults before one poked the other with a plastic trumpet on his chest in a row over a low turnout at a rally. The rally was eventually cancelled after it dismally failed to attract an audience. This was heard yesterday when MDC Alliance organising secretary for Ward 1, Shurugwi urban, Martin Chipule, appeared before Shurugwi resident magistrate, Mr Tayengwa Sangster, facing one count of assault. Chipule was convicted against his own plea of guilty. Mr Sangster fined him $30 or 20 days in prison. According to the State outline, the complainant, Mr Gibson Chauke, is an aspiring councillor for MDC Alliance Ward 5 Shurugwi urban while Chipule is the organising secretary for MDC Alliance Ward 1 in Shurugwi urban. The two are not related but are both members of the MDC Alliance. The court heard that on July 15 at around 3PM, Mr Chauke and Chipule were both at Douglas ground in Shurugwi town where the MDC Alliance had scheduled a rally. Due to a poor turnout, the court heard, the rally was rescheduled to today. Mr Chauke and other MDC Alliance leaders present started to strategise on how to mobilise people. The court heard that Mr Chauke told the other members that he had received a phone call from the provincial offices telling him to advice Mr Manungo, who is the MDC Alliance aspiring Member of Parliament for Shurugwi North constituency, not to postpone the rally since it was a national programme. Chipule stood up holding a plastic trumpet and stated that Mr Chauke had falsely reported about the postponement of the rally to the provincial office. Chipule further stated that Mr Chauke was allegedly misusing school funds at Charles Wrath Primary School where he is the chairperson of the School Development Committee. The court heard that Chipule then poked Mr Chauke with the plastic trumpet four times on the chest. Mr Chauke grabbed the trumpet and broke it before other party members intervened and restrained Chipule from further assaulting the complainant. Mr Chauke, the court heard, developed chest pains as a result of the assault. The matter was reported to the police leading to the arrest of Chipule. Ms Bertha Bore appeared for the State.