Callisto Pasuwa Sports Reporter THE Unilever sponsored Shield-Chelsea football talent search reaches its climax with the 35 shortlisted players getting into a week-long boot camp that started yesterday at Mandel Training Centre in Harare. The talent search will see one lucky Zimbabwean getting an opportunity of flying to London to train with Chelsea legends. The camp is running until Friday and training will take place at Belgravia Sports Club under the guidance of former Warriors coach Calisto Pasuwa, ex- Highlanders mentor Cosmas ‘Tsano’ Zulu, former Dynamos midfielder Naison Muchekela and former Caps United player Alois Bunjira. The opportunity comes from Shield’s partnership with Chelsea Football Club, which was established in 2017. Shield brand manager, Susan Luneta, said the camp will be beneficial not only to the winner but to all participants. “The boot camp is an important phase of the #Bethenextchampion campaign. Not only is it about picking a representative from Zimbabwe for the Africa XI team, but it is also about inspiring confidence, hard work and teaching dedication to all the participants. “This is the embodiment of Shield deodorant “We want all the players attending the boot camp to leave with the memorable experience of having gained valuable football skills that will take their football aspirations a step further as they continue to pursue their dreams. “The camp will also teach the participants to be exemplary members of society as they interact with each other,” Luneta said. The individual selected will get to train at the world-class training ground, Cobham, and get to play against Chelsea legends. The local coaches will be joined by their counterparts from Chelsea later in the week as they are expected in the country on Tuesday. They will conduct training sessions on July 25 and 26, and announce the winner from Zimbabwe who will join the Africa select team that will play with Chelsea legends in London. Pasuwa said they have an intensive programme for the week-long camp that will help the players make the grade. “This boot camp will be an intensive programme that will give the youngsters the training and skills they will need to impress the Chelsea delegation. “We know they already have the talent, (so) this time it will be about building on their raw talents and counselling them on pursuing their goals,” said Pasuwa. The Chelsea coaches’ delegation consists of head coach Laurence Griffin, Steve O’ Reilly and Freddie Myers.