Innocent Kurira, Sports Reporter FIREWORKS are expected when Ajax Hotspurs face Arenel Movers in a Zifa Bulawayo Province Division Two Soccer League encounter at Induba grounds tomorrow afternoon. Ajax remains unbeaten in the league after six matches winning five encounters and drawing one game. They have accumulated 16 points and lead second placed Chicken Inn by three points. Arenel Movers are in fourth place having amassed a total of 12 points from five games. Arenel have had a decent start to this season.  They have won four of their encounters and drawn once. Ajax coach Gugulethu Dlomo said they were taking each game as it comes. “It’s going to be a tough game, Arenel have played well this season but we are confident of getting a positive result. It is still early days, but I am happy with the start we have had.  The boys have really impressed me. This is one of the better starts we have had and we want to ensure that we maintain this form. I’m happy with the results so far, but if we are to keep on winning, we need to work on getting our high-tempo game right. I believe after we have played ten games I will be in a position to really see where we are headed as a team,” said Dlomo. Ajax go into the fixture banking on the experience of Maxwell Mburayi, Tanatsa Hove, Clement Vheremu and young striker Butho Phiri. Arenel will look to the likes of Keith Mugumbate and Arnold Mhlanga to lead them to victory. In other encounters league debutants Quality Green will face East Rovers in what is expected to an exciting game while White Birds play hosts to Chicken Inn at Marisha grounds. Chicken will be hoping to get a victory away from home as they aim to keep close tabs on the leaders. Fixtures Today: Emakhandeni Pirates v Sabona Mzilikazi (Emakhandeni), Zenzele Tigers v The Bantu Academy (B/F Outside Ground), White Birds v Chicken Inn (Marisha), Las Palmas v FMSA Umguza (Milton High School), Lobengula Stars v How Mine (Nkulumane 12 Library), Quality Green v East Rovers (Mambo Tshabalala) Tomorrow:  CS Distributors v Mpopoma Pirates (Sizinda), Arenel Movers v Ajax Hotspurs (Nduba) —@innocentskizoe