Sandra Ndebele Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent THE SONG of the year, at any awards ceremony, is the most anticipated category for fans and the most coveted for musicians as it cements their dominance in the industry, so is the case with the Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards (RoilBAAs). The city’s big hitters in the music industry have been put into one bowl where the people and a panel of adjudicators will decide who lands the crown, come Saturday. Unlike during last year’s ceremony where it was a foregone conclusion that Madlela Skhobokhobo’s Ngamnanka was the Song of the year, this year, the competition is stiff. The likes of Bekezela, Khuxxman, Sandra Ndebele, Nceku and Clement Magwaza, whose songs have been making waves in their various different circles, are battling it out for the accolade. Bekezela for instance, has been riding high on the crest of having sung one of Mzansi’s best love ballads, named after him that has trickled down to Zimbabwe. The song is soulful and resonates well with many in their different situations of longing for a loved one. The social commentator that Khuxxman is came up with a song called Amaloja where he addresses the plight of tenants which made an impact in society. Khuxxman Using the Dalom music beat, Khuxxman’s song even got him evicted from where he was renting as the lyrics were too close for comfort for his landlord. The song landed the Best Metro-Urban song of the year during the Skyz Metro FM awards. Christian comedian Nceku decided to produce a Rhumba track Vel’angikuzwa that has topped charts locally and is occasionally played at weddings and parties around the city. Clement Magwaza is a perennial nominee in local awards and his track Bathi Asoyami from the same titled album might land him the accolade. Khuxxman summed up the nominees’ feeling about the awards, saying he was not sure who would bag the awards because competition in his category is stiff. “I’d like to thank people for nominating me in that category. What I can say is winning that category is difficult because the competition there is stiff. “My fellow nominees did very well last year. So for me to say that I’m confident that I’ll land it, I can’t, as it’s too tight to call,” said Khuxxman.