 Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Zimbabwe Soccer Coaches Association (Zisca) has remained adamant that their members will not abide by the Premier Soccer League’s decision to financially sanction them as they can only be disciplined by Zifa in terms of the existing football statutes. Early this week, the PSL slapped Mutare City coach Joseph Takaringofa and his Shabanie Mine counterpart Takesure Chiragwi with $1 150 fines for allegedly issuing reckless statements in the media implying bias after their sides’ encounters against Ngezi Platinum and Yadah respectively. Chapungu’s Robert Jiuro and Chicken Inn’s Tirivaviri Sithole were slapped with $250 fines for being expelled from the technical area. “As coaches, we all fall under Zifa’s technical and development committee who actually give us licences to operate, not the Premier Soccer League and as such the league is misdirecting itself by what it is doing,” said Zisca chairman Bheki Nyoni. He said they were under Zifa as per standing statutes and as such it is only the national association that can impose sanctions on them. “We have had many complaints about referees but have you heard the PSL punishing them? No because referees, like us, are the baby of Zifa. There is a need for people to appreciate and understand football statutes. The PSL has no mandate to discipline coaches and we would want to urge those concerned clubs to actually appeal to Zifa to have these sanctions reversed because clubs are also members of Zifa, not PSL,” said Nyoni. On Wednesday, the Zisca secretary general Oscar Mazhambe said they were disturbed by the purge on their members and hinted at even approaching the courts. “We are really disturbed by this purge on our members which we take as violating their right to express themselves. Freedom of expression must be allowed, not really condoning bad behaviour but to rely on mere press reports without any proof is not right. If officiating is poor a coach must be allowed to express himself but what the PSL is doing is suppressing that right. In the long run coaches will refuse to comment because they won’t know which words to say,” Mazhambe said. 