 Eddie Chikamhi, Harare Bureau MOUNTAINEERS made a huge statement yesterday in their quest for a double this season after making short work of Mashonaland Eagles in a Pro-50 Championship cricket match at Old Hararians. The Mountain Goats, who were crowned Logan Cup champions last week, are looking to spread their dominance to the limited overs game and yesterday they trounced Eagles by eight wickets to assume control of the race midway through the campaign. Mountaineers collected a bonus point yesterday after bowling out their opponents for 116 runs and then reaching the target in 26 overs, much to the delight of their coach Shepherd Makunura. The win catapulted them to the top of the five-team log standings with 15 points, one ahead of Tuskers who also beat Rising Stars by six wickets yesterday. The Mountaineers bowlers put Eagles under pressure earlier on after they had won the toss and elected to  field. National team opening batsman Hamilton Masakadza then finished off the game with an unbeaten 53 runs. Victor Nyauchi claimed three wickets for Mountaineers while Donald Tiripano, Tendai Chatara and Wellington Masakadza had two each. “I think our opening bowlers did quite well and they put Eagles under some form of pressure early on. Otherwise we are all happy with the performance,” said Makunura. With the Logan Cup success still fresh in their minds, Makunura said they are now targeting the Pro50 Championships to crown a triumphant season. Although there are still four more games to be played, Mountaineers have established themselves as strong contenders for one of the two slots for the limited overs final set for June 2 at Harare Sports Club. “Of course there’s a good chance of finishing the season with a double. We just need to keep focused on our remaining games. “I believe there is good competition from the other teams in the league. It’s never easy playing any one of the four so we have to take it game by game. “But to be fair, I think what we have achieved so far this season is mainly due to the group of players that we have at Mountaineers. “We have stayed together for the past two years and we have worked really hard as a unit during that same period. So the results are now showing. “You can also never substitute experience for anything. “Having the guys like Hamilton Masakadza and (captain) Tino Mawoyo in the squad has really made it easier for everyone. “It’s really something special to win the Logan Cup. It is even sweeter winning it back to back. “Mind you this is our third Logan Cup title and we want more,” said Makunura.