 Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent FOUR Kezi-based cops have appeared in court after they allegedly collected money for a fine from a motorist and pocketed it. A court heard that the four cops working together fined Mr Rodger Ncube $100 for having an expired motor vehicle licence. They receipted $10 instead of $100. Ndaniso Ndlovu (44), Tafadzwa Takawira (30), Staline Chikambure (33) and Thamsanqa Dube (30) – all stationed at the ZRP Kezi traffic base – were not asked to plead when they appeared briefly before Gwanda magistrate, Mr Obedience Matare, facing criminal abuse of duty charges. They were remanded out of custody to May 29 on free bail. Prosecuting, Mr Moses Gondongwe said the four cops committed the offence on February 1. “Mr Ncube was on his way to Maphisa Hospital with a patient and when he got to Mahetshe turn off he arrived at a roadblock that was being manned by the four police officers. They inspected his vehicle and realised that the motor vehicle licence had expired. “The police officers impounded the vehicle, escorted Mr Ncube to the hospital to drop the patient and then took the vehicle to the police station where it was parked and they took the keys,” said Mr Gondongwe. He said at around 11AM, the police officers ordered Mr Ncube to meet them at Maphisa turn off where they were manning a roadblock. One of them advised Mr Ncube to pay a $100 fine for failing to license his motor vehicle for two terms. Mr Gondongwe said Mr Ncube handed over $70 to the cops and EcoCashed them the remaining $30. The quartet allegedly ordered him to delete the confirmation message from his phone. “The cops gave Mr Ncube a receipt for a $10 fine instead of $100 which they had received. On the following day Mr Ncube went to ZRP Sun Yet Sen where he reported the matter. “In a bid to conceal the offence after Mr Ncube had made a report, the three cops receipted $60 and forged Mr Ncube’s signature but the offence came to light,” he said. Mr Gondongwe said an identification parade was held where Mr Ncube identified the cops. He said the receipts were inspected and showed that Constable Thamsanqa Dube was the arresting detail while Sergeant Ndlovu, Constable Takawira and Constable Chikambure were witnesses. He said receipts, identification parade photos and $30 EcoCash transaction confirmation can be produced as exhibits. @DubeMatutu