 Justice Simango DO you ever wonder if your relationship with your boss will hinder your career? Have you established a friendship with your supervisor outside the office? Do you worry that you might share too much information with the person you report to? While these questions have come across many employees before, it’s essential to foster positive relationships between supervisors and members of staff. You might get to know him/her on a personal level as long as you understand that there are professional boundaries that you should never cross. On Tuesday, May 1, Zimbabwe joined the rest of the world in commemorating International Workers’ Day (May Day). The genesis of the Labour Day movement came as a result of a general strike for the eight-hour workday scheme. May Day stands as the biggest celebration for labourers and working classes that are promoted by international labour movements. The date was chosen by a group of pan-national organisations of socialist and communist political parties to commemorate the Haymarket affair which occurred in Chicago on May 4, 1886. Lessons from the past celebrations have underlined key boss-employee relationship ethics and top industry leaders agree that, it’s not advised for supervisors and the people who report to them to become close personal friends. Bosses are people too, and they have feelings that can interfere with job evaluations and assignments. Even when they’re able to put those feelings aside, other people may perceive them as showing favouritism, and that can hurt the morale of the entire department. If you supervise people, you need to be cautious about what you say, how you act, and how involved you get in your employees’ lives. It can be quite a precarious balancing act. Be friendly. This doesn’t mean sitting down with the people you supervise and dishing about the weekend. Instead, offer a friendly greeting each day, be sincerely interested in anything the person says that affects his or her job, to put people at ease with a kind word, and be available when needed. It’s good to make small talk as long as it doesn’t come across as prying or inviting too much information. Many will remember the South Africa miners’ strike, a one-day strike that took place on the December 4, 2007. The entire mining industry went on strike against the unsafe conditions of working in a mine. While this is not new, bosses can prevent industrial action by showing interest in employees’ concerns about their job and being there for them when needed. It is only during the slave trade era when bosses were unfriendly and unprofessional. Gone are the days when employers wore a harsh look on their face when communicating with subordinates. Be open, smile often, and show empathy during conversation and other interaction. Modern leaders do not play “hide and seek” in the workplace. Don’t sit in your office behind a closed door all day. This gives your employees the feeling that you either don’t care about them or don’t want to be bothered with the day-to-day events in the workplace. When trade unionists start to “seek,” they do this in the form of demonstrations and strike – something obviously bad for business. I admire bosses who offer compliments more than complaints. You might assume that people only need to know when they’re doing something wrong, but that’s not the case. When people hear about the good things they’re doing and get credit for their accomplishments, they’re typically more open to taking criticisms and improving. Use caution when commenting about their appearance. In other words, avoid getting too personal when complimenting or calling someone out about what they’re wearing or how they look. You might say something like, “You look very professional today,” instead of “that top really makes your eyes pop.” Employees will look up to you for hints on how to act in the office, how to dress, and other important professional qualities while they’re at work. Whether you like it or not, as a supervisor, you’re a role model, set the best example! Of late, I have been engaged in discussions with captains of various industries and most of them have raised questions on how they are expected to handle themselves if they attend the same social events as their employees. My response remains the same; conduct yourself in a way that represents your position with the company. This means no excessive drinking, telling off-colour jokes, or doing anything that goes against the company’s policies. If you have attended social events with your boss before, you will discover that he/she departs the venue earlier than everyone else. Whatever the reason they give for leaving, I think they will be avoiding acting improperly in public hence a wise boss will quickly dismiss to maintain his/her reputation. This year’s celebrations come against the backdrop of several industrial actions from workers from different sectors particularly in the public service who have expressed dissatisfaction with the working conditions provided for them by their masters. As an employee, you are equally responsible for the relationships you form at the office and this includes how you interact with your boss. Whether you think your supervisor is the best thing ever or you dread seeing him/her everyday, you still need to maintain your professionalism in the most positive manner possible. Show respect. Even if you know your boss had a wild and crazy weekend, at the office, he/she is still your supervisor. Be respectful of the position, even if you don’t see your boss as someone you would want to emulate. Most businesses require a certain amount of confidentiality especially in the private sector to keep their competitive edge. Trustworthiness is one of the most valuable commodities an employee can have. It might be common knowledge that you and the boss have been friends for years, or you are related because you come from the same village, this should not tempt you to think that you are above everyone else and more special than others. It is therefore apt to wish all the workers in different classes a progressive and professional business year. Justice Simango is a Business Etiquette and Grooming Consultant who writes in his own capacity. He is a member of Toastmasters International. Feedback; justcesimango4@gmail.com