Tadious Manyepo, Harare Bureau Yadah 1 – 0 Mutare City YADAH coach Thomas Ruzive was a relieved man after seeing his men end a three-match winless run with a victory over Mutare City Rovers in a Castle Lager Premiership match at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. The Prophetic Healing and Deliverance Ministries’ team, who have not been consistent in the marathon, took their points tally to 14 after registering their third win of the season. Veteran striker classic Ralph Matema’s 49th minute header did all the damage. “My players showed a lot of commitment and determination in the game. We showed a lot of character by being able to lift ourselves up and come back from a 0-1 defeat against ZPC Kariba last weekend,’’ said Ruzive. “These three points are very crucial and the victory has given us some breathing space. It is not good to go for a lengthy period without winning matches. Our job is to ensure that we become competitive. It is encouraging when we start winning games, it shows that we are a team good enough to be in the top-tier league. “We were all disappointed with the loss in Kariba but we managed to bounce back from that disappointment. That is what is crucial. We are already looking forward to our next game.’’ Mutare City gaffer Joseph Takaringofa, whose players were on strike before he managed to convince some of them to travel to Harare for the fixture, lamented the lack of fighting spirit among his charges. ‘’We were not ourselves today. I don’t know but the guys did not commit themselves the way they usually do on the pitch. We allowed Yadah to dominate us and I feel we should have done better. “Now, sitting on the bottom of the standings, pressure is beginning to mount on us but I hope we will come back. The players usually show a lot of fighting spirit but not today (yesterday). “I am not happy with the way we continue to lose points, especially when the players do not commit themselves like the way they usually do.’’ Washington Pakamisa, one of the few Mutare City players showing the hunger for the game, came close to getting a goal for the visitors on the hour mark but skied his effort from inside the box after a neat pass from David Mangesi. Teams Yadah: C. Chimusoro, W Kalongonda, W Chakanyuka, J Dzingai, A Makopa, D Savanhu (L Murape 66h min), B Mapfumo, C Sekete (J Chitereki 90th min), M Musiyakuvi, M Chiwara, R Matema (M Meleka 82nd min) Mutare City: A Chiname, W Pakamisa, D Mangesi (H Muzhara 60th min) G Jimu, P Gumbo, W Mafa, L Mangaira, T Jeffreys, K Njovo (T Sadiki 77th min), B Chinhoyi, T Kabanda (M Moyo 84th min)