Nelson Chamisa Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent RWANDAN President Paul Kagame has exposed MDC Alliance presidential candidate Advocate Nelson Chamisa as being a habitual liar following his claims that he was involved in Rwanda’s Information Communication Technology (ICT) policy formulation. Adv Chamisa told an MDC Alliance rally in Beitbridge over the weekend that he assisted President Kagame in setting up Rwanda’s ICT policy. A video of the MDC-T president making the claims has gone viral on social media with some Twitter enthusiasts tagging the Rwandan President to verify if Adv Chamisa was telling the truth. “We want budgeting to be done at community level. In Rwanda, Professor (Welshman Ncube), my brother Paul Kagama (sic) is doing a wonderful job. I assisted in his ICT policy issues when l had visited Geneva with Mugabe (former President),” said Adv Chamisa. “He was impressed with my presentation and he asked who l was and Mugabe replied saying this is my young boy and l said no I’m Tsvangirai’s (late MDC-T president Morgan) boy.” Advocate Chamisa served as the country’s ICT Minister during the Government of National Unity from 2009 to 2013. President Kagame using his Twitter handle @PaulKagame dismissed Adv Chamisa saying he has never met him. The Rwandan President responding on Twitter said his country’s ICT policies were started way before MDC was formed in 1999. Adv Chamisa was not even known politically then. “1st my name is Kagame not kagama 2- I don’t know this man & no discussion ever happened with him anywhere …3rd Rw’s ICT policy, projects & progrm started before MDC formation and politics! I wish the people of Zim. Well! (Sic),” twitted President Kagame. Paul Kagame The Rwandan President press secretary Ms Yolande Makolo was more direct, calling Adv Chamisa an outright liar. “He’s lying. Never heard of him. He has nothing to do with any part of our economy. And Rwanda’s IT plans were already being implemented in the 90s. Before the MDC even existed,” twitted Ms Makolo. Using the same platform Adv Chamisa insisted that he met President Kagame at a conference. “Your Excellency, you’re not expected to remember everything. We met at a conference a few years back & you requested your ICT DG to get a copy of a presentation I had given. “There’s a generational consensus across Africa that your leadership of Rwanda is progressive & inspiring,” tweeted the MDC-T leader in apparent desperation. Adv Chamisa seems to have developed a penchant for lying whenever he addresses his party supporters at rallies. In January, addressing a rally in Mutare, Adv Chamisa lied about meeting United States President Donald Trump claiming that the American President promised MDC $15 billion if it wins the country’s election. In the same month, the American Embassy in Harare issued a statement distancing its Government from his utterances. Last month, in an interview with BBC Stephen Sackur, the MDC-T president was cornered into admitting that he lied about meeting Trump. Adv Chamisa who has been accused by the other MDC-T faction of grabbing power, has at many rallies made ludicrous electoral promises. He has promised to build spaghetti roads while introducing bullet trains that will travel from Bulawayo to Harare in 40 minutes. @nqotshili