 Tadious Manyepo, Sports Reporter Black Rhinos 0 – 0 Herentals. HERENTALS missed a huge chance to bag maximum points for the first time in five matches after they failed to capitalise on their numerical advantage in this dull Castle Lager Premier Soccer League tie at Rufaro yesterday. But coach Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva was still happy to share the spoils. Midlands referee Munyaradzi Majoni, who had a poor game, dismissed the army side’s midfielder Blessing Sarupinda for a second bookable offence. “I am happy to have picked the point although I feel we should have utilised our numerical advantage to bag maximum points,” said Mutiwekuziva. “Coming from a disappointing 1-2 defeat at the hands of FC Platinum and taking a point away from home against Black Rhinos is always something to celebrate. “We lost last week, drew against Black Rhinos today (yesterday) and we hope the script will change in our next fixture. “Black Rhinos were disciplined after they went a man down and although we tried our best, offensively, we could not breach their rearguard. “We are a team playing good football but somehow luck was not on our side. I am happy with the point picked away from home” Black Rhinos coach Herbert Maruwa was also pleased with the way his charges held on for the point. “It was a match of two halves. We controlled the first and Herentals imposed themselves on us in the second stanza, especially after our player received his marching orders, which I think was the turning point of the match,” said Maruwa. “But I am happy for the team and the players who fought tooth and nail to absorb the pressure, especially towards the end of the tie.’’ Black Rhinos should have taken an early lead in the opening 10 minutes of the match but enterprising midfielder Masimba Mambare failed to beat outstanding Herentals goalkeeper Frank Kuchinei from close range. Both teams could not create good chances after that until the 48th minute when Innocent Benza failed to connect an Archmore Majarira pass. But the moment of the game came towards the end when Black Rhinos keeper Ashley Rayners did well to twist his frame and deny substitute Edga Mhungu, who had connected with a powerful header, a goal. Teams Black Rhinos: A Rayners, M Mekiwa,F Banda, B Homora, S Jimu, D Mudadi, B Sarupinda, M Mambare (M Kureva 64th min), M Chigora (T Sibanda 46th min)(W Kapinda 81st min), W Taderera, L Chiunga Herentals: F Kuchineyi, B Maunganidze, C Mavhurume, P Chota, W Chimbetu, W Kapumha, I Benza (E Mhungu 50th min), E Dzirondiro, B Majarira (R Chishaya 66th min), J Mutudza, A Majarira (T Benza 82nd min)