Joseph Tshuma Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent MEMBER of the House of Assembly for Mpopoma-Pelandaba Joe Tshuma says he is not happy that imbube group Black Umfolosi have not received any royalties for their song Unity, 31 years after its release. Speaking during the Bulawayo provincial Culture Week launch on Monday at Inyathi Youth Centre in Mpopoma, Tshuma said he was shocked that the imbube outfit had not received money for their song that is still being used during national holidays such as Unity Day. Black Umfolosi, an all-male ensemble which has travelled to all continents in the world performing at various festivals and shows except South America, were at the culture week celebrations where they were honoured for being Arts and Culture ambassadors by the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (NACZ). During their acceptance speech, one of the Black Umfolosi founding members, Sotsha Moyo, revealed that they had not been given any money. Tshuma, upon hearing this, expressed his displeasure and vowed to raise the issue in the House of Assembly next week. “Speaking about the royalties, as Member of Parliament for Mpopoma, I pledge that when the August House resumes sitting next week, I’ll put the issue before Parliament. “I’ll be making noise on television asking why Black Umfolosi haven’t been given their money. I want people to know that I’m not happy that artistes such as Black Umfolosi from Matabeleland haven’t received their royalties while Jah Prayzah from Mashonaland is always receiving his,” he said. Tshuma said he was going to show his appreciation for the group’s work and gave them $500 through an EcoCash transfer to Moyo. He said Bulawayo artistes who are continuously raising the country’s flag high overseas needed to be honoured and supported just like the likes of Kirsty Coventry and Charles Manyuchi. “Zimbabwe is known all over the world because of you and there’s nothing that has been done to honour you for that. Olympic swimmer Kirsty Coventry, when she won gold, came here and was given money. “Manyuchi won the world title and was given money. However, Black Umfolosi has done so much and nothing was done. So that is going to be corrected from now on.” Moyo was at a loss for words with the gesture saying them not receiving royalties for the song was part of the challenges that they have faced over the past 36 years. He urged artistes to be steadfast in their careers. During the event, Black Umfolosi toured various stalls that had traditional herbs, beads and the like around the centre before settling down for a traditional meal. The meal comprised isitshwala, amangqina, macimbi and vegetables, which were complemented by a bottle of ice cold mahewu. Thereafter, the festivities began with various groups including all-female imbube group Nobuntu, Ukukhayakwezwe, Umdumowesizwe, IbutholikaKristu, Indosakusa and Msiteli High School paying homage to Black Umfolosi through song and dance. The old ladies from Thandanani Women’s Ensemble added some sparkle to the event with their traditional songs and dance.