 Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent FIVE people died, four on the spot, including a two-year-old toddler when a vehicle they were travelling in sideswiped with another resulting in a head on collision with oncoming traffic at Museva business centre in Chivi. The accident confirmed by national police spokesperson Chief Superintendent Paul Nyathi occurred on Tuesday at the 84km peg along Masvingo-Beitbridge Road at around 6.45AM. The deceased were identified as, Justice Makayi (35) who was the driver, Providence Makayi (24), Prudence Silibaziso Dube (22), Augustine Mabasa (23) and Kelvin Dube (2) , all of Makayi Village under Chief Nemangwe, Gokwe. He said the bodies of the deceased were taken to Chivi District Hospital mortuary for postmortem. “I can confirm that there was a road traffic accident which occurred at Museva business centre near Ngundu Growth Point, Chivi in Masvingo province which claimed five lives. Four people died on the spot while the other  died later at Ngundu Clinic,” said Chief Supt Nyathi. He said Justice Makayi was driving a Renault towards Beitbridge with four passengers on board while Mr Augustine Muzoziona (35) of Eastvale, Masvingo was driving a commuter omnibus towards Masvingo City. Chief Supt Nyathi said, a Ford Ranger twin cab, driven by Mr Munyaradzi Zimbwa (36) of Ngundu Growth Point was also heading for Masvingo and travelling behind the commuter omnibus which had no passengers. At the 84 km peg, Chief Supt Nyathi said, the Renault sideswiped with the commuter ominibus resulting in a head-on collision with the Ford Ranger. The Ford Ranger driver and his passengers as well as the driver of the commuter omnibus all escaped unhurt. Chief Supt Nyathi warned motorists against speeding. “As police we are appealing to drivers to be cautious when behind the wheel and avoid overtaking when it is not safe to do so. They should also value life and ensure that their vehicles are in perfect condition. “It is disturbing that we continue recording these fatal road traffic accidents which could be avoided,” he said. @walterbmswazie3