Dr Thokozani Khupe Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent ADVOCATE Nelson Chamisa-led MDC-T supporters have been condemned for verbally assaulting Dr Thokozani Khupe and calling her a prostitute as she exited the Supreme Court in Harare on Tuesday. The party supporters, who were allegedly bussed to the Supreme Court, hurled obscenities and insults at Dr Khupe. Dr Khupe is leading a breakaway MDC-T faction following the party’s split in March and the two camps are now fighting over who should use the party’s name and logos in court. A video of MDC-T supporters denigrating Dr Khupe calling her “h. . . e” (prostitute) has been widely circulated on social media, causing outrage among members of the public. The public called on the MDC-T leadership to deal with their intolerant supporters and slammed them for being sexist. Posting on Twitter, Dr Khupe’s deputy, Mr Obert Gutu, said the MDC-T supporters could do worse if they seized State power. “Thokozani Khupe is a mother. She was verbally abused outside the Supreme Court today (Tuesday) by some drunken hoodlums and political malcontents. Just imagine if these thugs and hoodlums were to acquire State power! Good thing is this will NEVER happen,” twitted Mr Gutu. Former advisor to the late MDC president, Mr Morgan Tsvangirai, Dr Alex Magaisa, condemned MDC-T supporters for being intolerant, saying the party should take steps against them. “I just saw a video of a group chanting derogatory terms against Thokozani Khupe. This behaviour is wrong in every sense. Whatever grievances there are, that is not the way to behave. The leadership must condemn this loudly and activate the disciplinary mechanism,” twitted Dr Magaisa. A concerned Zimbabwean, Mr Luckson Zvobgo, blamed MDC-T leaders for allowing supporters to mill around the courts. He called for action against the accused supporters. “Appalled by these hooligans chanting H. .e to Khupe. MDC as a democratic people’s party is above this. Those responsible must investigate the whole matter, bring these culprits to book, action must be taken but I blame leaders who advised povo to go to the courts particularly Mr Hwende (Charlton MDC Deputy Treasure General),” he twitted. Using the same platform, Zanu-PF United Kingdom chairman Cde Nick Mangwana said the insults were tantamount to thuggery and sexism and have no place in the country’s politics. “I think together with thuggery we need to seriously purge sexism from our politics. At this rate Zimbabwe politics will never attract women. Which woman would want to go join politics and be subjected to this level of abuse? Those 60 PR (proportional representation) seats will one day have no takers,” twitted Cde Mangwana. It is not the first time for MDC-T supporters to attack Dr Khupe while insulting her. At the burial of the party’s founding president, Mr Tsvangirai, she was attacked by rowdy party youths who accused her of blocking Adv Chamisa’s rise to power. Dr Khupe accused Adv Chamisa of sending mercenaries to kill her for being a stumbling block to his ascendancy to power. — @nqotshili