 Codelia Mondela, Court Reporter THREE illegal gold panners who were arrested at Kensington plots on the outskirts of Bulawayo after allegedly resisting arrest and attacking detectives on Saturday, have appeared in court. Nyasha Ndiweni (22), Phakamani Sibanda (20) and Givemore Nyirenda (18), all from Shangani Mine Compound, were part of a gang of illegal miners who allegedly charged at police officers armed with shovels, a slasher, axes and a pick. Tinashe Mufema was shot by police on the leg during the process and later died at the United Bulawayo Hospitals. Ndiweni, Sibanda and Nyirenda were not asked to plead to charges of prospecting for minerals without a permit when they appeared before Bulawayo magistrate Ms Adelaide Mbeure. The magistrate granted each of them $100 bail and remanded the matter to tomorrow for provision of a trial date. Prosecuting, Mr Maclean Ndlovu said detectives arrived at the scene at around 7AM during an operation code-named “No to illegal gold panning” when they found the group of illegal panners between Helen Road and Harold Road, Kensington. “On May 26, the illegal miners were prospecting for gold using a detector, three shovels, a slasher, three axes and a pick. Police officers identified themselves to them and asked the accused persons to produce a permit or license which required them to prospect for gold,” Mr Ndlovu said. “However, some of the team members ran away and police managed to arrest Ndiweni, Sibanda and Nyirenda who tried to resist arrest by charging at the police officers. The police officers were armed with a pistol and two rifles.” On Sunday, sources said the aggressive panners ignored three warning shots and ran boldly at the police, prompting one of the detectives to shoot at them. Residents said they heard police had come to the area looking for a murder suspect. They said the panners were violent and often threatened to kill anyone who tried to chase them away from their plots. “We heard police arrived at the plot after receiving information that one of the suspects linked to the death of a panner (Howard Sibanda (19), who was stabbed and struck with a pick a week ago by fellow miners in Hope Fountain), was at the plot,” said a resident. @MondelaC