Marvelous Nakamba Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWEAN international Marvelous Nakamba has achieved a feat desired by many, winning a European league championship in his first season with Club Brugge of Belgium. Nakamba’s stock continues to rise, with his performance at the Belgium side courting interest from English giants Liverpool. On Sunday, Nakamba played the entire game as Club Brugge, who he joined from Netherlands outfit Vitesse at the beginning of the season, won the title with a game to spare. A 1-1 draw in the title play-offs against second-placed Standard Liege was enough for Club Brugge to win the title. They reached an unassailable 46 points after play-offs. Standard Liege may only end the season on 45 points if they win their next game. By winning the Belgian title, Nakamba and Club Brugge have earned direct qualification to the Uefa Champions League. The soft-spoken Nakamba told Chronicle Sport in an interview from his Belgium base that he is excited with his championship medal. “First of all I thank the Most High God for the blessings and the talent he gave me. I’m really grateful to what the Lord has done for me and I just want to continue working hard and let God do the rest,” said Nakamba. The Warriors’ star, whose success is certainly an inspiration to many, said he had no problems settling at Club Brugge where he commanded a starting place and played most games. “Coming to a new team, a new environment, I had to work hard and settle as fast as l could. It wasn’t a problem because when pre-season started I was here and easily adapted,” said Nakamba. The former Njube learner declined to comment on possibilities of an off season transfer to England, preferring to enjoy his achievement. “We are left with one game and I just want to celebrate the win with my team and stay focused,” said the left-footed midfielder. Nakamba has been a darling of Club Brugge fans, whom he charmed with his ability to dictate play in the middle of the park and winning tackles and tough duels. He signed for Club Brugge at a time when they were seeking a replacement for legend Timmy Simmons and the Zimbabwean did not disappoint, and has proved an able replacement. At 24, the Warriors’ midfielder is destined for even greater exploits on the international football scene. His blossoming career in Europe began with club AS Nancy in 2012 before he joined Vitesse two years later. @ZililoR