 Real Madrid: Navas; Carvajal, Varane, Ramos, Marcelo; Casemiro, Kroos, Modrić, Isco; Ronaldo, Bale Out: none Doubtful: none Liverpool: Karius; Alexander-Arnold, Van Dijk, Lovren, Robertson; Henderson, Milner, Wijnaldum; Mané, Firmino, Salah Out: Oxlade-Chamberlain (knee ligaments), Gomez (ankle), Matip (thigh) Doubtful: Emre Can (back) Well, once again Madrid are here. The Uefa Champions League final seems to be a date they have circled in the diary every year and once more they may believe it is their destiny to lift the trophy for an unprecedented 13th time. Zinédine Zidane has a selection dilemma up top – Gareth Bale or Karim Benzema? – but whoever isn’t given the nod isn’t a bad option to bring on, either Jürgen Klopp’s troops have no reason to fear Real Madrid. The Merengues may have big-game experience on their side, but Liverpool’s irrepressible front three are capable of inflicting serious damage on the holders. If the Reds can show the defensive steel that served them so well over two legs against Manchester City in the quarters, they might just crown this remarkable campaign with a sixth European Cup. Zinédine Zidane, Real Madrid coach This will probably be the hardest final we’ve ever had to play. We will have to be at our very best – we know that – and on all levels, not just physical. They’re an English team, so they will never give up, but they don’t just rely on their physical attributes. Liverpool are also good technically, with a lot of speed and great individual players. Jürgen Klopp, Liverpool manager We had an agreement when we started working together that I’m responsible for any defeats, the boys are responsible for when we win. So they have nothing to lose. Experience is very important and I’m pretty sure a second before the game Madrid will be more confident than us. But it doesn’t matter because the game doesn’t stop there, it only starts. They’ve not played us and we are Liverpool – not only a good football team, but we have in our DNA to go for big things. — Uefa