 Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls SIX national radio stations now have their frequency reachable in parts of Matabeleland North courtesy of the Broadcasting Authority of Zimbabwe (BAZ) through their Kamativi and Kenmaur transmission sites, ending years of exposure to foreign stations. The stations now reaching the province are Spot FM, Radio Zimbabwe, National FM, Power FM, Star FM and ZiFM Stereo. Communities around the province have however, called for programming that articulates issues from their localities. It is the first time that some parts of Matabeleland North, especially areas around Hwange, Binga and Lupane, have started receiving radio transmission following the switching on of Kamativi and Kenmaur transmission sites recently. When driving along the Bulawayo-Victoria Falls road, one is now able to pick the Power FM and ZiFM Stereo frequencies clearly, while Radio Zimbabwe, Spot FM and National FM are clear in urban areas. The Star FM signal is a bit weak as it comes and goes and is sometimes unreachable while it also gets infiltration from ZiFM Stereo. Engineers have said the transmitters cover a radius of 120km making the stations clearer in Lupane and Hwange towns where there used to be no transmission at all. Those who spoke to The Chronicle said they were excited to be receiving local radio transmission. “We’re happy that we can now tune in to local stations other than Studio 7 which was the only radio we had access to all along. There are a number that are clear and what we need now are local stories. “We want you people to come down to our communities and report on our developmental issues so that our people can be updated on issues around them and also be heard countrywide,” said Lupane West MP Martin Khumalo. Chief Shana from Jambezi in Hwange said it was exciting to listen to a local station. “There’s a station that’s clear during the day but we can’t get it in the evening. However, we want to hear our languages and our culture being broadcast,” he said. Government is working on completing transmission sites countrywide under the digitalisation project as it readies for migration from analogue to digital. BAZ technical director Engineer Mathius Chakanyuka recently said the Kenmaur Transmission site in Lupane was now a typical station with capacity to host 24 TV channels and six radio stations. He said the project was successful because of the skills transfer programme between the Government and its Chinese partner Huawei. At least 26 graduate engineers are now fully in charge of the project around the country and working with experienced ones at BAZ, Transmedia and ZBC. “We have 26 graduate engineers attached to the project. They’ve been here for the past three years doing training. We’re satisfied with their work so far and happy with their progress in terms of delivery,” said Eng Chakanyuka. Speaking during a tour of transmission sites in Matabeleland North recently, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services, Mr George Charamba, said the country now has a “crop of very qualified engineers in civil, electronic and telecommunication engineering.” @ncubeleon