Stephen Muzhingi Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau THREE-TIME Comrades marathon winner Stephen Muzhingi is eyeing to make a strong comeback when he takes part in this year’s edition next month. Muzhingi made a name for himself when he won the ultra-marathon for three consecutive years, from 2009 to 2011. He has continued to compete in the ultra-marathon over the years but, however, could not manage the top spot as he did from 2009 to 2011. But, as he prepares for this year’s race, which will be a down run on June 10, Muzhingi says he is looking to making a huge impression. He blamed the dip in his performance to injuries in the last couple of years. “I am going to Comrades, I am actually leaving on the 4th. I want to win the race and then retire because I am tired of losing my money trying to get treatment for the injuries I sustained over the years. “I thought these were minor injuries and would get better not knowing that after winning Comrades for three consecutive years it was going to come back to haunt me. “But I think I have been recovering well in the past few months, I am now able to work on my usual training programme. “I want to retire with a win . . . maybe if I get a sponsor I will return next year but if I don’t get a sponsor I am retiring,” said Muzhingi. Speaking on the sidelines of the JM Busha 54 races marathon last Friday in Harare, Muzhingi said he had to slow down after a persisting calf injury. “What affected me mostly were injuries. I had a persistent calf injury from 2014 and I could not perform to my best. “I started treatment in 2017 and came eighth in Two Oceans because I had not fully recovered. “And when I thought I had recovered I pulled a muscle on my left leg but I have been going through some treatments and I am now feeling much better. “So I am positive by the time we go for Comrades I would be okay. I am also banking on my experience. If you are not physically fit you have to be mentally strong,” said Muzhingi. Despite the setbacks he has encountered, the former Comrades champion has no regrets about his career. “I am happy with my achievements and what I invested for myself and family,” he said. “If I had not gotten this opportunity, to be an ultra-marathon runner, I would not have been where I am today. “So I am satisfied with what I have managed to achieve over the years. “I believe when you get an opportunity in life, you have to use it wisely. If you are a brand there should come a time when you also help others, it cannot always be about you. “I am now assisting some upcoming athletes as well.”