 Yoliswa Dube MY brother has had all his life to learn what I like and one of the things he’s mastered is I like nice things. He’s the one person who will travel somewhere and remember to bring me perfume, a watch or a handbag. I must say for a guy, he’s got quite a good eye for handbags! Or maybe he’s that guy who will walk into a store and buy whatever the sales lady says looks pretty. Well, I don’t really care much about who picks the bags — I get all the pretty ones at the end of the day. I realised just recently that he’s been feeding some low key handbag fetish of mine. I’ve got a couple of few from him and now and I must say the collection is quite sleek. But somehow, I don’t use all my handbags all the time. Which brings me to my next point. You don’t need a truckload of handbags — at all. All you need are two good ones and you’re set for life. Well, for a while. A lot of women don’t realise this, but a good handbag completes “the look”. It gives you that polished finish. Like you know what you’re doing and you’ve got your life figured out. The trick is in making sure you pick bags that are simple, yet chic. Go for a plain black one and perhaps another in beige, brown or any other subtle colour. The idea is so you can carry your handbag with different outfits without looking off and seeming like it’s the only one you have. If you invest in a maroon handbag and you don’t have a red or yellow one when you decide to wear red or yellow shoes, I have one word for you. Disaster. We don’t have money to be splashing on handbags in all colours of the rainbow that’s why a black handbag is always a good choice. It will flawlessly go across outfits and believe me; you’ll find it much more enjoyable carrying it around. If you can’t afford getting a genuine leather bag or some durable material like that, avoid overloading your bag with too many things as the straps begin to take strain over a short period of time. Please, your handbag is not your overnight bag. Treat it with respect and it will love you back. When you make that big handbag purchase, don’t go for the one with numerous metal motifs and buckles. Keep it as simple as possible. Remember, you’re trying to get the most of one handbag so don’t get yourself, and us, dizzy with too many motifs on your bag. Avoid those that have the big LV (Louis Vuitton), Prada and Burberry motifs embedded with diamante on them. Who are you kidding? You and I both know a Louis Vuitton handbag doesn’t cost $45. It’s tacky when you try too hard. The size and straps of your handbag are entirely up to you, although you generally wouldn’t want to have your handbag too big or the straps too long. This is because too big a bag will drown your look and too long a strap will hang too loose and may lift or crease your dress or skirt as you walk. Make sure you don’t keep junk in your handbag. Invest in a handbag organiser to make it easier to switch handbags or just simpler to find things. I know some women whose bags are a mine field; you really don’t want to go in there for any reason! I once read somewhere that the state of your handbag reveals a lot about your state of mind and emotional being at that particular time. If it’s well organised and tidy then you’re generally in a good space in life, but if it’s unsightly and filled with lots of junk, then you’re probably going through the most. I don’t know if it’s true but I thought it was an interesting observation. Anyway, make sure your handbag always has facial tissue, breath mints or gum, a pen, a little notebook, a comb, a safety pin, a pad, painkillers, lip gloss, hand lotion and deodorant. All these can go into a little toiletry bag and will be handy one day. Don’t move around without your identification card or driver’s licence and make sure you have access to a little money, whether in cash or a debit card. P.S. Never make your man carry your handbag. It’s not cute. At all! Until next week, flaunt your pattern and style and don’t forget to catch up with me on Twitter handle @Yolisswa or drop me a WhatsApp message on +263715666227