Samson Muripo Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter FOUR of Zimbabwe’s nominees for the Regional Sport Awards (Rasa) have made the top three finalists ahead of the awards night in South Africa on Saturday. The winners in each category will be unveiled at the awards night, in Johannesburg, which Sport, Arts and Recreation Minister Raymond Kazembe is expected to attend. Zimbabwe’s reigning Sportsperson of the Year, karateka Samson Muripo, is among the finalists for the regional Sportsperson of the Year along with Tanyaradzwa Muzinda (Junior Sportswoman of the Year), Margret Bangajena (Sportswoman of the Year with a disability) and Elford Moyo (Sportsman of the Year with a disability). The Sports and Recreation Commission (SRC) believes the nomination is testament to the quality of Zimbabwe’s sportspersons. “This is pleasing that our athletes have been able to stand shoulder to shoulder with the region’s best athletes. This is testimony of the high standards of sportspersons that we have in the country. It is also evidence of the training regime that our coaches have deployed in order to reap such results,” SRC communications officer Tirivashe Nheweyembwa said. Tirivashe Nheweyembwa “In order to sustain high standards, there is need to ensure that the athletes are continuously exposed to high performance training and competitions and as the SRC, we will ensure they are supported in every way possible so that they reach the highest standards for the good of the nation.” He said the awards are derived from the National Sports Awards, hence their importance cannot be underestimated. “We wish to inform the nation that preparations for the Annual National Sports Awards (ANSA) have started in earnest and we are appealing for everyone’s support. As we prepare for the 2018 ANSA, we are encouraging the National Sport Associations to submit to us the performance of the athletes, coaches and technical officials so that when the time comes for the awards no one will be left out. “Above and beyond the submissions of the awards, we are now in the process of discussing with various sponsors and partners to agree on the package for the awards. Our view is that the more the merrier, the more sponsors that we have on board the better it will be for the athletes, coaches and technical officials. As the organisers of the local awards, we remain committed to delivering a high quality awards event,” Nheweyembwa said.