 Business Reporter AS Africa commemorates its 55th anniversary today, economists and policy makers’ attention is being drawn to assessing progress towards economic transformation and development across the continent. While regional leaders are seized with implementing strategies to take the continent to a new development level anchored on increased socio-economic, cultural and political integration, there are louder calls for Africa to rise to the occasion and tell her own story. African technocrats, institutions and politicians are agreed that a united Africa has huge potential to transform the continent and claim its place in the global setting. Stanbic Bank Zimbabwe, a subsidiary to Africa’s largest bank by assets, Standard Bank Group, says “a new Africa is fast emerging and with it Africa’s people are beginning to take their rightful place on the world stage in areas as diverse as science, art, music, sport and of course business”. Nigerian author Chinua Achebe, often called the grandfather of African literature, once said: “If you don’t like my story, write your own.” For too long, Africans have not liked the story that has been told of Africa, says Standard Bank. “For too long, the story of Africa has not been told by its own people. Far too many stories remained untold, stories of determination, of beauty, of love and triumph over seemingly insurmountable odds. Gradually, Africans began to tell their own stories,” says the bank. As the crafters of the African stories the bank said the media has played a critical role in defining Africa in the eyes of the world. Africa’s stories are not just found in the pages of newspapers, in libraries and museums but they live in the hearts of everyone who calls Africa home. To celebrate these stories, on Africa Day, Standard bank Group has been asking all Africans to share their stories with love letters to Africa, using the hashtag #LoveLetterToAfrica. “Our letter is to you and your role as storytellers in ensuring that the full story of Africa does not go untold. In helping to tell Africa’s real, authentic stories you are helping us achieve this goal. In so doing, we ask not that you ignore the continent’s failings or become hollow praise singers. We merely ask that you continue to tell the rich story of Africa,” says the bank. “No matter where you’re from, Africa is our home. No matter our backgrounds or beliefs, we share the same passion and pride. Together we can drive her growth, united in our love for Africa.” Africa Day is the annual commemoration of the foundation of the Organisation of African Unity, now African Union, on 25 May 1963. It is celebrated in different countries on the African continent as well as around the world. Years after Africa has attained independence from colonialism, the continent is still plagued by incidents of instability, poverty and deep-seated inequalities among the states and within countries.