Snr Asst Comm Erasmus Makodza Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE police have warned officers against accepting favours from political parties during election campaigns, saying adequate resources will be provided to make sure that they effectively perform their duties. Police commander for the 2018 harmonised elections committee, Senior Assistant Commissioner Erasmus Makodza on Tuesday said it was unethical for police officers to be offered favours by political parties. Snr Asst Comm Makodza who is on a countrywide tour to assess the state of preparedness and deployment of police officers ahead of the general elections to be held on July 30, was speaking at a Press Conference in Bulawayo. “It’s unethical for police officers to accept favours from political parties. We’ve agreed that under the new dispensation, the ZRP should be upright in its actions and transparent in the execution of its duties. “We therefore do not expect our police officers to be assisted with food, money or transport by political parties because it’s unethical. They’ll be provided with allowances and transport for their respective roles during the elections. Every police officer should observe ethics and principles,” said Snr Asst Comm Makodza. He said that more vehicles and communication equipment will be availed to all provinces ahead of the elections. “We need additional resources to ensure that our officers are mobile and have adequate communication equipment. We’ve already been assured by the Commissioner General of Police that the equipment we need has been purchased and police vehicles will be availed. “However, the few resources that we have are enough to deal with any eventualities in case of politically motivated violence. I want to assure the nation that as far as our policing duties are concerned we’re ready to deal with any situation with the available resources,” said Snr Asst Comm Makodza. He said police were also not allowed to be seen assisting voters to cast their votes at polling stations. “The police officers are not Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) officers but they are key stakeholders. The mandate of the ZRP, which is enshrined in the constitution section 219 says only Zec presiding officers can assist voters. “Police officers are therefore not allowed to assist voters. Their duty is to provide law and order and ensure that peace prevails at the polling stations. The voting process is conducted by Zec,” said Snr Asst Comm Makodza. He said the media was equally a key stakeholder during the voting process and called for the police to ensure that they work in coordination with Zec and the media. Police in Bulawayo said the province was geared for the elections and more than 2 300 police officers will be deployed to the 410 polling stations. @pamelashumba1