 Mukudzei Chingwere in Gweru RESURGENT Chapungu coach Rodwell Dhlakama says Ngezi Platinum Stars’ unbeaten run will one day come to a halt and believes his men will deliver the blow when the teams clash at Ascot this afternoon. The high-flying platinum miners are the only unbeaten team in the league after 12 rounds of matches. But Dhlakama, who has won four points out of a possible six since taking charge at Chapungu, warned that Ngezi’s bubble could burst at Ascot. Chapungu’s revival has also come amid reports that they could be recipients of a $250 000 sponsorship from NetOne. Black Rhinos are also likely to get the same financial injection. Dhlakama will also be buoyed by the fact that Ngezi have never won a league match at Ascot against Chapungu. “Ngezi are a very good team with a very good coach who has been doing very well not only this season but even in the previous seasons. “I know they are yet to lose a game this season but even themselves (Ngezi) know that one day they will lose and hopefully we will be the first team to beat them. “The players are enjoying themselves and they are giving their best at training which gives me confidence that they can do well against the very best in the league. “In our last two games against Chicken Inn and Shabanie Mine we did very well and we hope to even improve against Ngezi. “When we take to the field against them we will not look into their record or current form but we will do all we can to get maximum points. “We have a good record against Ngezi and we will do our best to maintain that good run,” said Dhlakama. Ngezi Platinum coach Tonderai Ndiraya yesterday said they were not taking the airmen lightly. “We have done well as a team in the past 12 games but in football the next game is the most important,’’ he said. “Our next game is against Chapungu at Ascot, a venue which has not been good to us. We went there last year and we drew 1-1. “So, we are looking forward to improve on that record. Remember we said we want to improve on what we did last year. “We are looking at getting a better result than a draw meaning we are going there seeking three points.’’ Meanwhile, fellow platinum miners FC Platinum have been warned by their provincial rivals Nichrut to expect a difficult challenge when they clash at Mandava tomorrow. Last week Mapeza told the press that playing after Ngezi puts his side under pressure if the fellow miners win their fixture the previous day. Nichrut coach John Nyikadzino said his charges are in the same league with the high-riding miners. “FC Platinum are a very good team but we are in the same league and we are going into the match to compete with them. “We are going into the match without any inferiority complex and we will do our best to get a positive result in Zvishavane. “In our previous game we played well but unfortunately we did not get maximum points, we are now working on converting the chances that come our way,” said Nyikadzino.