Cde Richard ‘Ijongosi’ Moyo Leonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter ZANU-PF Matabeleland North province has postponed to tomorrow a Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC) meeting that had been set for yesterday in Lupane to pave way for the holding of election re-runs in 13 wards today. The PCC meeting was meant to introduce the party’s winning candidates to members and also launch the election campaign for the province. “The secretary for administration informs you of postponement of PCC meeting to Wednesday 16 May. This is due to primary elections rerun in other areas,” said the provincial party leadership in a statement. The party’s provincial chairman, Cde Richard “Ijongosi” Moyo, who will represent the party in Umguza constituency after the incumbent Dr Obert Mpofu opted to go for the Senate, confirmed the postponement. PCC members and only candidates who won primary elections at all levels are invited for the Wednesday meeting. The re-runs will be held in the local authorities in four districts where there were either irregularities or the elections were not held following hiccups that characterised the party’s primary elections last week. In some of the wards, there were allegations of cheating where some uncommissioned cell registers were recovered from polling stations while some candidates were ferrying people from outside the contested wards to vote for them. These are Wards 5, 9 and 10 in Bubi district, wards 4, 7, 13 and 16 in Hwange Central Constituency, as well as wards 7, 8, and 15 in Hwange rural. There will also be a rerun in Ward 2 in Victoria Falls as well as Lupane’s wards 2, 18 and 27. The re-runs were commissioned through circular number 10 from the office of the party’s National Commissar Retired Lieutenant General Engelbert Rugeje dated May 11. “The Zanu-PF national elections commission has recommended that re-runs be conducted in the under listed areas. The reruns will be held on May 14, 2018. In this regard addresses are directed to coordinate the exercise and ensure that adequate material and personnel resources are in place to ensure its successful implementation.  The results of the elections should be relayed to the headquarters as soon as possible,” read the circular seen by The Chronicle. Other elections in the House of Assembly and Senate as well as proportional representation and provincial council were completed. @ncubeleon