File picture of Ezimnyama Dance Ensemble in action Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent AFRICA Day this year marks the 55th anniversary of the formation of the Organisation of Africa Unity, which was created to promote solidarity between African nations as more and more countries assumed their independence. As the continent marks this anniversary today, people from all walks of life will celebrate the day in different ways. Also, a series of activities have been lined up in Zimbabwe. Kicking off the celebrations is an event at Salukazi Arts Centre in Njube, Bulawayo. The much anticipated event, meant to celebrate Africa through dance and music, has over 15 acts lined up to perform. Starting at 2PM, it will be a mixture of music, theatre, dance and stand-up comedy with the likes of rapper Cal Vin, gospel hip hop artiste T1NDA, Mzoe 7, imbube group Indosakusa (formerly Impumelelo Shining Stars), Iyasa, Ezimnyama, Khaya Arts, Umkhathi theatre works among others performing. While this is happening in Njube, a stone’s throw away at White City Stadium, the Nqobani Masuku Foundation will be celebrating Africa Day with a Disability awareness gala. Dub poet Albert Nyathi is billed to serenade members of the public at this event and will be joined on stage by Prudence Mabhena, Khaya Arts Production, Indosakusa (formally Impumelelo Shining Stars), Taff Ghetto Six Skul Of Life and The True Defender Taremeredzwa Kwangwari and DJs Gabbs and Mox. Founder and director of the foundation, Nqobani Masuku, said they were hosting the event to intensify their efforts for the betterment of the disabled. “The event is not only meant to bring big names in entertainment circles, but to raise awareness on what we, as privileged members of society, ought to do to help the disadvantaged,” he said. Masuku called on those living with disability to attend the event where canes (sticks) and crutches will be donated. “This will also be an opportunity to register those who’re in need of wheelchairs. We’re therefore calling on the disabled to come and celebrate Africa Day with us so that the foundation can assist them,” said Masuku. At the Bulawayo Theatre, there will be a dance showcase called Rhythm Reconstructed which will see a fusion of hip hop, contemporary, ballet, acrobatics, afro fusion and modern dance styles. The show starts at 6PM. In the city centre at The Vista, tribal house trio Djembe Monks will be the headline act during the OneMoney Africa Day concert. The event, organised by Skyz Metro FM, will also have the Reavaya Drive Time show broadcasting from the Vista hosted by TKP and BKay. Dress code is African attire and entrance is $2. In Victoria Falls, residents should expect an eventful and packed Africa Day celebration with musical as well as church events lined up. The celebrations kick off with a festival and night market show at Elephant’s Walk where local DJs, DJ Francis and music bands Chicken Bus, Black Mamba Man, So Kindly, Flying Bantu and Kweseka will perform. Vendors also have a chance to showcase their wares as stalls have been availed at $10 each for the duration of the show which starts at 3PM. Our Lady of Peace Catholic Church in Victoria Falls has also organised the Africa Day Food Fair and raffle draw which will take place on Sunday. Worldwide Family of God Church will, also on Sunday, hold a service dedicated to Africa Day under the theme “Working to make Africa great”. For MultiChoice Zimbabwe, Africa Day is a day to reflect on what it means to be African. As such, various films and movies that tell the African story will be broadcast on DStv at the weekend. According to the company’s chief executive officer, Lovemore Mangwende, their organisation is undeniably one of Africa’s greatest media success stories, with a footprint spanning 49 countries across Sub-Saharan Africa and a growing continental customer base for the various DStv services. “In many ways, MultiChoice Africa’s philosophies reflect the principles of the Africa Day celebration, from cultivating unity to forging a brighter future. “At its heart, the company uses entertainment to enrich African lives by telling the continent’s stories; stories that open people’s minds, unite communities and connect Africans to new realities,” said Mangwende. He said MultiChoice Africa sought not only to use entertainment as a powerful driver of change in local communities, but also as a means of telling more local stories, documenting African history and providing a platform for Africans to share African stories.