 The wedding of . . . Tarisayi Emmanuel Mwedzi the son of Tarisayi Edgar Mwedzi and Lucia Munemo from Shurugwi and Qiniso Ntokozo Lusinga, daughter of Target Lusinga and Galan Tshuma from Tsholotsho. Tied the knot on . . . April 28, 2018. I met my husband . . . in 2012 in Gweru. I had visited my aunt at the Alice Building in the city centre. She is a tailor and he was working at a micro finance company whose offices were close by. On the first day, my then-to-be husband walked into my aunt’s workplace and started chatting me up saying he liked my smile. We both laughed and I told him he was crazy. Thereafter, when I would visit my aunt, he would show up and start talking to me. I made visits to my aunt more frequent anticipating to see him secretly. A month later, he asked me to visit him at his office. That’s where he told me he liked me and suggested that we start dating. I agreed and in the same year, we fell in love. How did he propose . . . it was in July 2015. He invited me for dinner in Harare at Cafe Nush. I didn’t think it was going to be a proposal because we had fought in the afternoon. During dinner, he started off by apologising and saying he wanted to spend the rest of his life with me. Immediately after that, a waiter came with a side plate that had a beautiful engagement ring on it. Upon seeing it I said yes and I cried tears of joy before hugging him. The people who were around clapped hands for us. It was romantic.  How did you break the news to your friends and family? Two weeks after the proposal, my husband sent a delegation to my family in Bulawayo at Mahatshula suburb to pay the bride price. We then started planning the wedding. Did you face any challenges preparing for the wedding? My mother-in-law fell ill and she had to go to South Africa for treatment, but recovered by the time the wedding was at hand. Also, we had money challenges but both our parents helped a lot and the wedding went on smoothly. We chose . . . Jacaranda Aisle in Woodville, Bulawayo for our wedding. It fitted with our wedding’s African theme, as it has thatched houses and beautiful trees. Favourite part of the wedding was . .  at the reception. The dance group, Ezimnyama, did a splendid job with their singing and dancing. Wedding dress . . . was a Chinese collar ballroom wedding gown with detailing, bought on eBay. Wedding colours . . . orange, brown and cream. The cake . . . had six-tiers, three of which were fruit cakes and the other being red velvet. It was made by Amazing Creations in Bulawayo. The bridal team . . . was a 12-member team led by Condrice Diza as best man and Qaphelisa Lusinga best girl. Guest list . . . Over 450. MC was . . . Mr Sifundo Ngwenya. Photography was provided by . . . Chrystal Media. Entertainment was provided by . . . Ezimnyama Dance Group. Budget . . . $5 500. Honeymoon . . . we are going to spend a weekend at Ngamo Safaris in Dete at the end of this month. If you want your wedding to be featured on our Wedding of the Week column, please feel free to get in touch with the Showbiz Desk on 09-888871-9, WhatsApp or call 0774 007 233 or send an email to bnndlovu1984@gmail.com.