 Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent OVER 75 000 people and counting from Zimbabwe have watched box office blockbuster superhero movie Black Panther, making it the highest grossing movie in the country so far. In line with global trends of breaking box office records, Black Panther, which was released at the end of January, was oversubscribed at the Bulawayo Ster Kinekor Cinema, resulting in the movie being screened in all four cinemas on some days. It also spent over three months being screened until the entrance of another superhero movie, Avengers: Infinity War. Black Panther featured Zimbabwe’s Danai Gurira, multi award winning actress Lupita Nyong’o, Chadwick Boseman, Michael B Jordan, Martin Freeman, Daniel Kaluuya, Letitia Wright, Winston Duke, Angela Bassett, Forest Whitaker and Andy Serkis. With global figures raking in nearly half a billion in ticket sales, Zimbabwe Black Panther records, according to Ster Kinekor Zimbabwe public relations executive, Amos Mathonsi, have surpassed that of crime thriller Fast 8. He said this during a Business Junket held last week at the Ster Kinekor Cinemas in Bulawayo. “So far, Black Panther has been watched by a total of 75 162 people and counting. The movie has surpassed our all-time best which was Fast 8,” said Mathonsi. He said these figures were a great opportunity for companies to utilise their cinema for advertising their products adding that local artistes can also utilise the spaces. With advertising rates that range from $30 to $600, Mathonsi said companies can have their 30 second adverts played before a movie in each of their cinemas. “Cinema offers advertisers the opportunity to extend their reach to high quality audiences. Cinema on its own and partnered with radio, TV, or digital/social media delivers improved reach, brand impact and ultimately better sales.” For artistes who want to promote things like their forthcoming shows or album launches, Mathonsi said, we welcome them to advertise with us as long as the content that they put is viewer friendly. Mathonsi said other than the big screen, companies can also use the show stands, plasma screens, ticket/catering Q-panels, and doors into each cinema or toilet for advertising. “The guarantee here is that the person who enters the movie house would’ve paid money to watch. So they’re very attentive and they’ll watch whatever is on the big screen,” said Mathonsi.