Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Gwanda Correspondent A GWANDA man is battling for life at the United Bulawayo Hospitals after he and his three accomplices were attacked by an angry mob of miners for assaulting their workmates. Dumisani Ngulube (35) who is under police guard, Mkhululi Muruzingwa (24) from Mberengwa, Mduduzi Tshuma (28) and Eugine Sibanda (18) both from Filabusi were armed with machetes when they invaded Zepha Mine and Pondeni Mine in Collen Bawn and allegedly attacked two mine workers over undisclosed reasons. The two miners Steven Moyo (36) and Judge Moyo (28) teamed up with their workmates and pursued the gang leaving Ngulube seriously injured while his accomplices were treated and discharged at Gwanda Provincial Hospital. Matabeleland South acting provincial police spokesperson, Assistant Inspector Joram Sithole, confirmed the incidents which occurred on Saturday and Sunday. “We have arrested three men while the other is under police guard at the United Bulawayo Hospitals after they attacked two miners in Collen Bawn. The gang went to Zepha Mine on Saturday around 1PM armed with machetes. “They found Steven Moyo with other mine workers and attacked him with machetes unprovoked before fleeing the scene. Moyo sustained minor bruises from the attack,” he said. Asst Insp Sithole said Moyo and the other miners pursued the gang and attacked them with stones and knobkerries. He said Ngulube sustained serious injuries and when the police attended the scene they found him lying on the ground before he was rushed to UBH. Asst Insp Sithole said on the following day Ngulube’s accomplices went to Pondeni Mine to avenge the attack on their friend. “The three men armed with machetes went to Pondeni Mine around 10AM on a revenge mission and found Moyo’s brother Judge. They attacked him and he escaped and hid in a 10 metre deep mine shaft. Judge sustained some cuts from the assault. “He and his workmates later teamed up and followed the gang. They attacked them with stones and the three men sustained minor injuries from the attack. Police arrested the three men who were also found in possession of dagga and a knife,” he said. Asst Insp Sithole said while police appreciated the assistance of the public in arresting culprits members of the public are urged to desist from taking the law into their hands. @DubeMatutu