Russian President Vladmir Putin greeting the commanders of the contingents participating in the parade in this file photo Special Correspondent Surviving members of the former ZPRA High Command, Field Commanders and men would like to congratulate the Russian Federation and its citizens as they commemorate the 9th of May — Victory Day celebrations. On this day, May 9, 1945 on which the forces that fought for human dignity, elimination of exploitation of man by man and racial equality, were pronounced victors against fascism. On this day, the Soviet Union and their allies saved all mankind from the evil of fascism. The day triggered a domino effect of African decolonisation. What would have happened if the Germans had overrun Stalingrad, Leningrad and other Soviet cities? What if the surrender of the German army May 9, 1945 in Berlin would have been the surrender of the Soviet Army in Moscow? Just thinking aloud because the above did not happen. The reality is that the Red Army was victorious and shall remain a fact that the German Army surrendered to the Red (Soviet) Army in Berlin in 1945. This was doomsday for those who believed in racial superiority. This also drove in the first nail on the coffin of colonialism. Its days were numbered. This was triumph of good over evil, socialist ideology against fascism. The road to victory by the Soviet Army was painted in blood; the blood of the Soviet people. Congratulations Russia as you celebrate Victory Day 2018! This victory was not for the Russian federation and its people only, but for human dignity, the beginning of the end of colonialism, racial inequality; the victory trigger, a domino effect of African decolonisation. The Russian federation has stood by the weaker states at international forums when they get bullied by some strong nations. It has even defended their sovereignty against bullying by militarily powerful states. The victory parade on Red Square in Moscow in Russia further dignifies the sacrifices by those who fell during the Second World War, Great Patriotic War. The participation in the parade by survivors of the Great Patriotic War prepares future generations to emulate their patriotism. The eternal parade where family representatives march in representing late relatives who fought in the Great Patriotic War is a symbol of honour by a nation to its patriots. The president of the Russian Federation leaves the saluting dias and joins the eternal parade. He marches carrying his father’s photo. His father Vladimir Spiridonovich Putin fought in the Great Patriotic War. What a motivation to the future generations! This epitomises the Cuban song which has the following words, “Dying for one’s country is to live forever”. We are pleased that after its victory over forces of fascism the people assisted those who were fighting for their independence. From Asia to Africa, they gave unconditional support to liberation movements. Southern Africa and Zimbabwe in particular owes a lot to the Russian federation and former Soviet states for their liberation. It gave material, diplomatic and moral support. The USSR relationship with African liberation movements started long before the Second World War. With the African National Congress of South Africa, contacts with the USSR started as early as 1927 when its president Josiah Gumede was invited to the 10th anniversary of the Great October Revolution. Other movements were contacted in the early years of their formation. In the later years, the USSR provided training of fighters and logistical support to the liberation movements. No liberation movement did not directly or indirectly benefit from the defeat of the fascist forces and their surrender to the Soviet forces. Those of our comrades who were sent to the USSR for further training recall the warm friendship they received from the Soviet people; the great sympathy for our struggle. The love was overwhelming, addictive and contagious. Contagious because it turned one into an international fighter against forces of oppression. This contact with the people of the USSR taught us to put people first in our liberation struggle. They emphasised on unity and shunning tribalism and similar vices. Their song, “Moi address nidomniulista, moi address Siviescom Soyuza” (My address is not a building or a street, my address is Soviet Union) said it all. Congratulations Russian Federation on Victory Day! 