 Bongiwe Nkomazana I was born with very clear skin, just like every other baby, which I had until I was about 11. It was so smooth and soft like a black blown up balloon to a point where it looked like it would tear if handled roughly. It was a different story as soon as I turned 12. Little pops started to appear on my nose and on the centre of my forehead and by the time I hit 16, there was no evidence whatsoever of the existence of a once silky skin. It hit me, hard. As much as my mother told me that it was a phase and my father still called me beautiful, I did not agree because that is not what I saw. I saw a disgusting skin condition and over the years I was engulfed . . . almost to obsession, by it and my life revolved around how bad my face looked. Years later to present day, my skin is still not perfect but it has gotten better mainly because I can somewhat afford to have a skin regime. I am not embarrassed to talk about it anymore also because I am older and the things that faze me have become few. However, for a person with acne, young girls in particular, acne is horrifying and the effects it can have are very detrimental hence I thought that as an acne sufferer myself, I would use this platform to sort of fill everyone in on what it is that we go through. Acne is an issue that affects both men and women but women are more likely to be affected by acne than men. You didn’t know that right? But yes, we are and growing up I just realised that boys and men take acne bravely while women will just give in and let it depress them mostly because we feel the stigmatisation more than men do, I guess. Acne, also known as pimples, is a skin condition that occurs when hair follicles plug with oil and dead skin follicles. It appears on the face, shoulders, back, chest and upper arms and whiteheads, blackheads, cysts and nodules are all types of acne. Besides the physical effects like scarring, acne poses a lot of psychosocial effects and one that I can attest to myself is a feeling of disgust or shame about the way you look. Imagine being a 15-year-old young lady and totally hating your face so bad you do not see the point of living a life where you yourself are revolted by it. It cannot be easy because self love is what wakes you up in the morning and gives you that drive to want to live your best life. Without it, what is the point? I know that everyone everywhere has become more sensitive and we seem to be walking on eggshells but look, one more thing to be careful about will not hurt. Allow a person with acne to be. She is fully aware of what her face looks like and your stares and remarks go unappreciated. Another psychosocial effect of acne is social withdrawal. Acne typically appears during puberty and this is a time when a young woman is developing into an adult and is very particular about her image and being accepted into social groups. The unfortunate part about this is that this is also a time when social groups are the most ruthless and will nitpick on everything superficial and possibly shun her for not meeting their standards. Kids can be very mean ladies and gentlemen and imagine being out casted for something you did not choose and cannot change? Or being given a nickname like ‘rocky road’ that ridicules your condition yet the situation is anything but humorous to you. This is for parents. Do not take for granted that your daughter with acne understands that she is priceless, flaws and all, and that it will get better. If you notice that she has become shy or antisocial and even standoffish, reassure her, talk to her and know how she feels. She could be going through the most like developing a social phobia. There is no child with higher confidence levels than a child who knows that her parents have her back. She will not be afraid to form new friendships and bonds and will go out and face the worlds’ blows knowing that she has a safe haven at home. Some women continue to have acne beyond their teenage years or develop it at a later stage in their life. Despite them being older and hopefully more emotionally stable, it still continues to leave negative effects. I read a study that showed that older women with acne tend to display the trait of anger. Some were angry at why they still suffer from acne, some were frustrated by the many useless remedies recommended to them and others were just irritated by people who make unnecessary comments on their skin. I think it all boils down to how women just want to look and feel their best and acne is just a big boulder standing in between us and that. Fortunately, there are treatments for acne like antibiotics and other habit or lifestyle changes women can make to control acne. So . . . to conclude, us women with pimples hate them, we did not choose this life. Instead of looking at us like aliens remember that you did not choose the smooth skin life either. Rather, it was a blessing bestowed upon you through God’s grace. An empathetic approach is needed. Let us all calm down and appreciate our more substantial qualities, yes?