 Business Editor ZIMBABWE needs a policy framework that promotes green innovations across the spectrum to combat negative effects associated with climate change, a technocrat has said. Given that climate change is a cross-cutting issue, Zimbabwe Agricultural Society (ZAS) chief executive officer, Dr Anxious Masuka, is of the view that reducing and combating its negative effects requires input from different sectors within a supportive positive policy setting. “Green innovations are required for the energy sector, agricultural sector, waste sector, manufacturing, domestic appliances, transport and housing,” he said. “For these innovations to flourish they require the right policy environment to which all players contribute to, as well as space to showcase their potential contributions to would-be consumers, funders, opinion leaders and policymakers.” ZAS in collaboration with the Ministry of Environment, Water and Climate and the Renewable Energy Association of Zimbabwe will next month hold a Green Innovations Expo and Conference to bring together green growth stakeholders at a highly interactive platform demonstrating practical ideas in reducing carbon emissions and illuminating cleaner technologies and cross pollinating sustainable development ideas. The inaugural expo has been set for June 21 and 22 at the Business Hub formerly Exhibition Park in Harare. At a time the country’s economy faces renewed hope, Dr Masuka said green innovations should take centre stage and 2018 provides an opportune time for different organisations and research institutes to show case their innovations and take part in the unfolding new national policy direction that is in tandem with the global sustainable development agenda. According to ZAS, the broad nature of climate change and green growth discussions demands that the expo and conference be wide in their scope with the onus being on interested participants to demonstrate their contribution towards environmentally sustainable development. The Ministry of Environment, Water and Climate is mandated to ensure sustainable utilisation of the environment, natural resources and climate change management. The ministry is responsible for spearheading the SDG cluster on environment, provides policy and strategic direction and ensures the country adheres to multilateral environmental agreements for the global good. In line with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the ministry has commenced the process of developing a green growth/low carbon development strategy for the country.