 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter FORMER footballers have been challenged to assist schools by coaching up and coming players, as part of their contribution to developing the game. Speaking on the sidelines of the COPA Coca-Cola 30th edition official launch at Rusununguko High School, some former Warriors’ stars said they had a duty to inspire youngsters. Ex-Dynamos midfielder Justice Majabvi, former Darry-T defender Dickson Choto, who had a stint in Poland, and More Moyo, formerly with Caps FC and Buymore, were among guests at the launch. “Everyone has to try and inspire the boys during a time they are playing development tournaments like the COPA Coca-Cola. “This is their first step in their career and as former players we can help these youngsters by providing guidance, advice and tips to improve their skills,” said Majabvi, who also had stints in Poland, Tunisia and Asia. Choto already has an academy, which he established before hanging his boots. “Someone saw a talent in me while I was young and nurtured me. “Former players can also do the same, pay back to the community and train the youngsters. Talent is abundant in Zimbabwe and imparting the right guidance and techniques to our upcoming stars will enable them to be better players,” said Choto. Moyo challenged COPA Coca-Cola participants to express themselves during the tournament and hope for the best. “The youngsters must give their best because COPA Coca-Cola is known to provide a platform for footballers. I just want to say they need to show their talent,” Moyo said. Yesterday’s launch marked the beginning of the 2018 edition of the COPA Coca-Cola, with zonal games expected to start next week. The national finals of the boys’ and girls’ Under-15 will be held in Zvishavane from July 14-16. Draw Boys Group A: Mandava, Harare, Manicaland Group B: Bulawayo, Midlands, Matabeleland South Group C: Mashonaland Central, Matabeleland South, Mashonaland East Group D: Masvingo, Rusununguko, Mashonaland West Girls Group A: Manicaland, Matabeleland South, Zvishavane Group B: Mashonaland East, Matabeleland North, Midlands Group C: Chidyamakono, Mashonaland Central, Mashonaland West Group D: Harare, Masvingo, Bulawayo. @ZililoR