Thupeyo Muleya, Beitbridge Bureau THIS year’s edition of Beitbridge Mayors’ Anti-drugs and Litter Marathon will be held on June 16 between the border town and Lutumba Business Centre along the Beitbridge-Masvingo road. The event is being organised by Beitbridge municipality as part of their initiative to reduce cases of drug abuse and littering in the area. Municipality spokesperson, Raniel Ndou said they were targeting a total of 350 runners and that the race will be held under the theme “Everyone Against Drugs Abuse and Litter” “We are having the race for the third year running and  are building on the success of the two previous two events,” he said. “Registration has opened at Beitbridge municipality offices. There will be a 21km race which will start at Lutumba Business Centre along the Masvingo road and finish at Border Service Station in the CBD. “In addition, there will be another 12km road race which will be held along the same road ending at the same venue. “For those who cannot run they may register for a 5km power walk which will start at Masvingo turn off and end at the Border Service Station. The idea is to raise awareness against issues of drug abuse and littering in our town”. Ndou said they were mobilising resources to ensure that the event grows bigger this year. He said those interested in participating in the race should register at the municipality offices or housing offices at their Dulivhadzimo Housing Office. He said entry fees were $3 for adults and free for all school children. “In addition to the money the athletes — in the case of adults they should produce national identification documents and school children need to bring birth certificates, ”said Ndou. He said they were appealing to businesses to complement the municipality’s efforts in the fighting drug abuse and littering. Littering has become a perennial headache for the local authority with the town producing a total of 700 tonnes of solid waste per month. The event attracted 156 athletes last year and was won by veteran long distance runner, Jonathan Chinyoka. He beat over 60 others and romped home after 1 hour 10 minutes, with Nkosiyazi Sibanda of Blanket Mine athletics club and Gilbert Mutandiro finishing second and third respectively. All winners in the race received trophies, medals, R1 300, R1 000 and R750 from position one to three respectively.