Zanu-PF’s national political commissar Retired Lieutenant-General Engelbert Rugeje Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent ZANU-PF losing candidates and others who were disqualified from contesting in the party’s primary elections have committed to campaigning for the party in the forthcoming elections. The party held its primary elections last week with results shocking some big wigs and incumbent MPs who lost the polls. Prior to the internal polls Zanu-PF national commissar Lieutenant-General Engelbert Rugeje (Retired) said losing candidates would be part of the winning candidates’ campaign teams. Losing and disqualified candidates who spoke to The Chronicle yesterday said they have accepted their fate and have vowed to assist the party win national elections. Pumula constituency’s Cde Godfrey Malaba said he was ready to serve Zanu-PF despite being disqualified from contesting in the primary elections. Cde Malaba’s constituency was won by Zanu-PF Youth League provincial chairman Cde Khumbulani Mpofu. “We are always ready to serve the party and anyway it’s a norm (we campaign for the party). However, the party has not approached me to be part of the campaign team. If they approach me I will assist where I can,” said Cde Malaba. He called on the party to improve on its information dissemination, saying lack of clear communication left some of them in the dark as to why they were disqualified. Nkulumane constituency MP Cde Killian Sibanda said although he was disappointed after being disqualified to contest in primary elections, he will not stop to fulfil its programmes. “If I’m invited to be part of the campaign team, I will accept the call. But I haven’t been roped in to the campaign team. Although I was disappointed after I was disqualified I’m not bitter as I was serving people not my family,” said Cde Sibanda. Insiza South MP Cde Malachi Nkomo said the party’s programmes come first pledging his dedication to Zanu-PF. Cde Nkomo lost the party’s primary election to Cde Spare Sithole. “Party programmes are party programmes and have to be followed all the times. But we are still waiting as all the candidates are yet to be announced,” said Cde Nkomo. @nqotshili