 Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Reporter ZIMBABWE has applied to re-join the Commonwealth as the new administration led by President Emmerson Mnangagwa is stepping up efforts to end the isolation of the country on the global stage. In a statement, Commonwealth Secretary-General Ms Patricia Scotland said Zimbabwe has begun the process of rejoining the 53 member bloc comprising of Britain and its former colonies. Ms Scotland said she was delighted to receive an application letter dated May 15, 2018, from President Mnangagwa. “I whole-heartedly echo the sentiments of Heads of Government who have said twice, in 2009 and subsequently in 2011, that they very much look forward to Zimbabwe’s return when the conditions are right. Zimbabwe’s eventual return to the Commonwealth, following a successful membership application, would be a momentous occasion, given our shared rich history,” she said. To rejoin, Ms Scotland said, Zimbabwe must demonstrate that it complies with the fundamental values set out in the Commonwealth Charter, including democracy and rule of law and the protection of human rights such as freedom of expression. She said the membership process requires an informal assessment to be undertaken by her representatives followed by consultations with other Commonwealth countries. President Mnangagwa’s administration has invited the Commonwealth to observe the forthcoming elections in July and the Commonwealth Secretariat is now mobilising a team of observers for the polls and their observations will form part of the Secretary-General’s informal assessment. “I urge the government, opposition parties, the election management body, civil society, and all stakeholders, to play their part in ensuring a credible, peaceful and inclusive process that restores citizens’ confidence, trust and hope in the development and democratic trajectory of their country,” said Ms Scotland. Zimbabwe was a member of the Commonwealth since its independence, but was suspended in 2002 at the height of diplomatic tensions between Harare and London over land reforms. Former President Robert Mugabe withdrew the country from the organisation in 2003 after its suspension was extended. Then British PM Tony Blair refused to provide compensation for land acquired from white commercial farmers for redistribution to indigenes as agreed at the 1979 Lancaster House Conference, which formalised Zimbabwe’s Independence from British colonial rule. Under the new political dispensation, President Mnangagwa is working towards normalising diplomatic ties with the former colonial master and other Western nations. @mashnets