Mbongeni Nxumalo Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent THE Outstanding Male Dancer category at the Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards (RoilBAAs) looks poised to have stiff competition with three brilliant dancers vying for the top prize. The three – Newman Takawira (Iyasa), Julius Hlabangana (Ezimnyama) and Mbongeni Nxumalo (Iyasa) – are waiting to battle it out for honours for the bragging rights on May 26 at the Large City Hall. Takawira and Nxumalo who are out in Austria and Germany for their annual excursion are from arguably Zimbabwe’s best known and most successful group Iyasa. Takawira, who joined Iyasa seven years ago, said he was overjoyed as this was his first nomination. “I feel so good. This is my first nomination and it’s an achievement on its own. I’m so nervous but at the same time, I appreciate that I’m counted as one of the best in the city,” said Takawira. The Makokoba-born dancer said he fell in love with the performing arts in 2010 when he watched Iyasa perform at White City Stadium. Julius Hlabangana “I joined Iyasa in 2011. This was after I fell in love with their style of performance. I remember watching them at a gala at White City Stadium the previous year. Their performance was captivating so much that I thought to myself,  ‘I want to go and lead one of the songs Siyayithatha lecup by Freddie Gwala’. “That song made me love Iyasa with all my heart and even when I perform, I enjoy dancing to the tune,” said Takawira who is soon to be married. Nxumalo, who lives in New Lobengula, said there was no greater feeling than being recognised for doing what he loved. “I appreciate people who saw it fit for me to be nominated for these awards. It’s a great feeling to be recognised for doing something that’s very close to my heart. “I joined Iyasa because I was curious to be part of the group ever since I was young,” said Nxumalo. Having joined the group in 2012, Nxumalo said it was the perfect platform to further his career in the arts. “I needed a platform where I could shine while showcasing my talent and Iyasa afforded me that chance to develop my talent. I’m able to see my career ascending to a point that I’m being recognised by the public,” said Nxumalo. Sandwiched between the Iyasa members is Hlabangana who is one of the pivotal members in Ezimnyama as his exploits on stage helped the group land the Chibuku Neshamwari Traditional dance national title last year. Hlabangana said he was honoured to be part of the nominees and feels that this is a stepping stone for his career. “It’s an honour to be nominated and I feel grateful to be recognised in the Bulawayo arts industry. It shows that we’re doing something great,” said Hlabangana.