 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE labour case between defunct How Mine FC players and their former employer failed to take off in Bulawayo yesterday after the hearing officer notified both parties that she had other commitments out of town. The players dragged their former employer to court last month seeking terminal benefits and outstanding salaries and allowances following the collapse of the club in February. The case, which is being handled by a labour officer identified only as M Chinyoka, was first adjourned on April 16 to yesterday after the players’ representative Sinfree Makore was requested to bring confirmation from players that they mandated him to deal with their case. Makore yesterday said 21 players had authorised him to represent them. “I have 21 players that have signed affidavits stating that I should represent them in this case. From our side we’re ready to go and How Mine are also ready for the case. Unfortunately, the case has been postponed to Tuesday next week. The hearing officer communicated to both parties that she is attending to something in Lupane,” said Makore. How Mine folded in February, a few weeks before the start of the 2018 Premier Soccer League season after the principal sponsor decided to review its corporate social responsibility strategy to focus on projects that are mandated and driven by the local community. Metallon Management Services then stated that it was in the process of meeting its contractual obligations to playing and coaching personnel. But after waiting for more than a month without their terminal benefits, the players decided to take the legal route. How Mine FC are being represented by human resources manager Mlondolozi Nkomo, chairman Paul MacAndrew and the club’s communications officer identified only as Hadebe. At the first hearing, which lasted less than 10 minutes, Hadebe argued that the retainers’ list of 27 players produced by Makore was the property of the company and could not be used as an authentic document since it was not procedurally acquired. She said they had agreed terms with some of the players on the list, hence they wanted Makore to state his clients. @ZililoR