Mr Justice Maphosa Business Reporter SOUTH Africa-based Big Time Strategic Group chief executive and founder, Mr Justice Maphosa, says he strongly believes in President Mnangagwa’s vision to turn around Zimbabwe’s economy and is confident about the processes being taken to achieve that. In a live interview during CNBC Africa’s Power Lunch programme yesterday, the Zimbabwe-born entreprenuer and philanthropist described Zimbabwe as a “virgin country” with vast opportunities for a diversity of investors. “Yes I am sure you have seen it, I very much believe in the vision of Emmerson Mnangagwa, especially his plea for the youth to come back into the country,” said Mr Maphosa, who has earned himself fame for rescuing then former Vice President Mnangagwa, when he skipped the country as a fugitive late last year. Mr Maphosa described Zimbabweans as hard working and applauded their discipline where ever they go. He said South Africa, for instance, had many Zimbabweans who have distinguished themselves and were holding high ranking positions in different business and public organisations, a testimony of their noble upbringing and quality education they got from home. Mr Maphosa said the economic stagnation experienced in the country in the last few years makes the country a favourable investment destination with vast opportunities across the board. “Zimbabwe is a virgin country, anything you can think of you can do. From internet café anything, to an Uber,. . . and restaurants etc. Zimbabwe has just discovered biggest gas reserves in Lupane. The opportunities are diverse. Zimbabwe has a lot of infrastructure that has decayed and that’s an opportunity for investment people in road construction and civil engineering. “For us in business, the ICT sector offers opportunity to use technology and streamline their processes and make business easier,” said Mr Maphosa. He dispelled fears of investment risks in Zimbabwe, saying every environment has its own risks. Asked about his sentiments on investing in Zimbabwe where there could be enemies after he boldly took a stand to assist President Mnangagwa, Mr Maphosa said his assistance to the President was done out of patriotism as a citizen of Zimbabwe. “I didn’t do this as a businessman but as a Zimbabwean. It was an act of kindness because the outcomes were not guaranteed that he will become President. I just extended a hand to a fellow countryman,” he said.