 THERE comes a time in every world-class DJ’s career where he/she has to ditch the airport queues and fly in their own private jet. Black Coffee has been travelling around the world for years, so it was really no surprise that he got a private jet to help him move from one gig to the other. Oh, it has his name all over it. According to information online, the plane, a D-IEMO Raytheon Premier 1A, can cost anything from R25 million to R50 million while chartering the plane could cost as much as R35 646 an hour. After seeing Black Coffee posing for pictures on the personalised plane with South African flags, his friends and fans obviously thought he had bought it and congratulated him on social media. “The European Summer is on and I’m so excited and grateful to be able to travel, share music . . . Love has no boundaries, no borders,” wrote Black Coffee on the post where he shared the pictures of the plane. But the star quickly cleared the air and explained that he is simply renting the jet for his summer gigs and told fans that his next goal was not to own a plane, but a school. “I will . . . one day . . . it’s not my next goal. First I need to help create a real working business model for artists and our music industry then build a school with my brothers Laduma Ngxokolo and Nelson Makamo. That’s my true dream,” he said. Still, his followers were happy for him saying he had made them proud. “Buti, we are darkies. We speak things into existence and we’re saying you bought a jet, end of story,” wrote one Rabs Maphai on Twitter. “I love this, black men making it,” wrote another. Black Coffee’s wife Enhle was obviously excited by the accomplishment and took to Instagram to reveal that the family’s plans were all coming together. “Eight years ago all we heard was it can’t and won’t happen and we are not meant to be. Love and God proves otherwise. Yesterday, your plan came to be and I remembered our hour long conversations about how your dreams and mine would go. “Today, you’ve shown that with a team that’s in it for you, God and a dream in your pocket, all is possible. Expect the devil to attempt to break you as he uses the weak to try break you, but with your ride or die and God sizowanyathela amadimoni.” — TimesLive