BAA trophies Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent MORE sponsors have jumped onto the bandwagon for the Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards with NetOne, Simbisa Brands and Zapalala supermarkets adding their endorsements to the awards being held at the Large City Hall on Saturday. Tickets to the awards ceremony that will be broadcast live on ZBCtv as from 6:30PM are already on sale at Boom City outlets. Ordinary tickets have been pegged at $10, VIP $15 and VVIP $25. The three companies have added their names to an already long list of corporates who have given the awards the thumbs up with the principal sponsor being United Refinery through their Roil Cooking Oil brand that ploughed in $20 000 to assist with the organisation of the event. Other sponsors include Proton Bakers, Zimbabwe Online (ZOL), Sunday News, Devine Assignments, ZBC, Ingwebu, Orap, Skyz Metro FM, CITE, ZICOPA, Longrich Zimbabwe, PES, AA Clothing, X-MO Squad, Multi Media Box, Khulumani FM, Bulawayo City Council, Boom City Advertising, Fusion Media Group, C ‘N’ C Productions, Home Grown Arts Productions, ZimPlow, iPress Copiers, Sound KaLCHA, GOREALR Photography, Sticky Designs and Beauty 4 Ashes Cosmetics. RoilBAA spokesperson Vusumuzi Dube said they were keyed up with the coming in of the latest sponsors. “We’re excited that more companies are coming on board to sponsor the RoilBAAs; it shows the confidence the corporate sector now has in this prestigious awards ceremony. “Just this week alone, we have clinched deals with NetOne, Fortwell Wholesalers, Zapalala Supermarket and Simbisa Innscor,” said Dube. “The NetOne deal is one to look forward to as those who want to purchase tickets to attend the ceremony using OneWallet will be able to do so at a 10 percent discount. “Also during the ceremony, some people will walk away with various grocery hampers provided by our various sponsors.” The RoilBAA sponsors are in negotiations with more sponsors to come on board as the day of the awards draws closer. Meanwhile, Dube said the nominees’ dinner will be held today at Glen Lodge starting at 6PM. “The nominees will be interacting with sponsors. They should feel that these awards are about them and this dinner affords them the chance to be spoiled and pampered. “The nominees will also be given their certificates,” he said. @bonganinkunzi