Fatima Samoura Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter WITH effect from next month, players will be free to terminate their contracts if their clubs fail to pay them for at least two consecutive months, world football governing body Fifa has announced. In a circular to all national associations, Fifa secretary-general Fatma Samoura said the new regulations were approved by a Fifa Council meeting held in Bogota, Colombia, in March. “We are pleased to inform you of some important amendments to the Regulations on the Status and Transfer of Players (hereinafter: “the Regulations”), which were approved by the Fifa Council at its meeting in Bogota, Colombia, on 16 March 2018. All of the relevant changes and additions will come into force on June 1, 2018,” Samoura wrote. The new status quo is contained under Article 14b of the Regulations on the Status and Transfer of Players, terminating a contract with just cause for outstanding salaries. “In the case of a club unlawfully failing to pay a player at least two monthly salaries on their due dates, the player will be deemed to have a just cause to terminate his contract, provided that he has put the debtor club in default in writing and has granted a deadline of at least 15 days for the debtor club to fully comply with its financial obligation(s). Alternative provisions in contracts existing at the time of this provision coming into force may be considered,” reads the amended article. “For any salaries of a player which are not due on a monthly basis, the pro-rata value corresponding to two months shall be considered. Delayed payment of an amount which is equal to at least two months shall also be deemed a just cause for the player to terminate his contract, subject to him complying with the notice of termination as per paragraph 1 above. “Collective bargaining agreements validly negotiated by employers’ and employees’ representatives at domestic level in accordance with national law may deviate from the principles stipulated in paragraphs 1 and 2 above. The terms of such an agreement shall prevail.” The new requirement will come as a huge relief for Zimbabwean players that sometimes go for more than two months without being paid, resulting in them resorting to industrial action. However, fear of losing players could now force all clubs to honour their contractual obligations.