Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter CHAMPIONSHIP chasing teams, Tsholotsho, Hwange and Talen Vision, are wary of their respective Southern Region Division One League opponents this weekend. Tsholotsho, who are unbeaten in five games and top the table with 11 points, are away to Plumtree side Main Line, who hammered NRZ Leopards 3-0 in the border town on Wednesday. Tsholotsho drew 1-1 with championship favourites Makomo last weekend and head to Plumtree without the services of defender Thandolwenkosi Ncube and chief striker Stanley Ngala through injury. Joseph Sibindi, Tsholotsho’s coach, hopes his charges will not underrate the league’s new comers. “What’s important is not to underrate our opponents because teams tend to raise their game whenever they take on a side above them on the league table. Obviously, Main Line will want to carry on with their momentum and this requires us to be attentive and concentrate throughout the game,” said Sibindi. Second-placed Hwange coach Nation Dube is preparing for a tricky encounter with neighbours Moto Moto. “Derbies are always tricky; it’s never easy to play a derby and what we will try and do is to get a positive result. Moto Moto might be playing their first season in this league, but they deserve the respect and attitude we give to the rest of the teams. We want to try and build from last weekend’s away win and put in an improved performance as we try to remain within the leading pack,” said Dube. Goals by former Chicken Inn midfielder Canaan Nkomo, Percy Sibanda and ex-Bulawayo City attacking midfielder Eddie Nkulungo powered Hwange to a 3-0 away win over ZRP Bulawayo in last weekend’s game. Talen Vision are away to winless Casmyn. Following two consecutive draws with CIWU and Indlovu Iyanyathela, Talen Vision need to find their mojo to keep their title hopes alive. “We need to regroup and start picking up maximum points. We’ve dropped crucial points and if we are to keep up with the leading group, we can’t afford to keep dropping points. However, we need to be cautious in our approach so that Casmyn don’t get us off guard,” said Juma Phiri, Talen Vision’s manager. Bosso 90 beat Casmyn 1-0 on Wednesday; two days after holding a training session under Madinda Ndlovu, and they will be hoping to build on their first win of the season when they face championship hopefuls Makomo in Hwange tomorrow. Polite Mwenda was on target for the Bosso development side. Newly promoted Toronto will be hoping to register their first win of the season when they play host to NRZ Leopards at Luveve Stadium tomorrow. Toronto are among the winless sides this season alongside Casmyn and Zim Leopards. Fixtures Tomorrow: Main Line v Tsholotsho (Plumtree), Makomo v Bosso 90 (Mpumalanga), Zim Leopards v ZRP Bulawayo Province (Raylton), Hwange v Moto Moto (Hwange), Toronto v NRZ Leopards (Luveve, 12PM), Casmyn v Talen Vision (Turk Mine), Indlovu Iyanyathela v ZPC Hwange (Mzilikazi Barracks), CIWU v Mosi Rovers (Crescent, 12PM) *All matches kickoff at 3PM unless stated — @ZililoR