Inspector Precious Simango Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter POLICE in Bulawayo have partnered with residents and the business community to launch a high profile community policing programme to curb crime. The initiative, which involves residents working directly with officers to patrol and increase visibility of law enforcers, covers about 30 eastern suburbs in the Hillside policing area. A road show was used to officially announce the initiative on Saturday. Bulawayo Metropolitan Provincial police spokesperson Inspector Precious Simango said the programme is in support of the recently launched Zimbabwe Republic Police Patrol Unit. “In pursuance of the Zimbabwe Republic Police community policing thrust which aims to bring the police closer to the residents, members of the Business Against Crime Forum of Bulawayo (BACFOZ) of Hillside, through their appreciation of the rise in robberies and unlawful entry into premises and theft cases have seconded high powered vehicles to carry out night patrols in a bid to curb crime. “The vehicles will be marked on both front doors and on the bonnet with an insignia ‘Hillside ZRP BACFOZ police’ with blue flashing lights,” said Insp Simango. She said in every vehicle there will be regular police members and one neighbourhood watch committee member who will either be in police anti-riot gear or navy blue shirt or t-shirt with reflective insignia on the sleeves, front and back written ‘NWC Police Hillside.’ “This new initiative will be covering the following suburbs: Hillside, Hillcrest, Malindela, Ilanda, Selbourne Park, Riverside, Matsheumhlope, Fortune’s Gate, Mqabuko Heights, Burnside, Waterford, Douglasdale, Hope Fountain, Manningdale, Willsgrove, Lochview, Buena Vista, Sunninghill, Kensington, Claremont, Warringham, Morningside, Fourwinds, Eleona, Greenhill and some eastern parts of Famona. BACFOZ is a community policing initiative tailor-made for the business community to work hand in glove with the police to prevent crimes affecting business. Insp Simango said: “Some of the community membership may as well double as neighbourhood watch committee members in their respective areas of residence. These initiatives, BAFCOZ and NWC, are found at all operational police stations. “Police encourage members of the public to approach their local police stations and partner with the police for a good cause.” For more information people can contact the Officer in Charge Chief Inspector Rabson on (029) 2242426 or 2241161-3 or 0772966347 or the Acting Officer Commanding police District Superintendent Dario Mapiye on (09) 70818 or 0777000007or The Police Community Relations Officer on (09) 60358 or 0772850914. @winnie_masara