Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter THE Environmental Management Agency (EMA) has commended Makokoba suburb for the great improvement in waste management after it had ranked as the dirtiest suburb in Bulawayo for the past three years. In 2015, EMA Provincial Manager Mr Decent Ndlovu named Makokoba and Entumbane suburbs as the dirtiest residential areas in Bulawayo but by December 2016, Entumbane had made great strides, now ranking among the cleanest areas. EMA holds annual media tours in the city’s suburbs meant to warn residents about the consequences of littering. During the last tour, the agency said they had turned to churches to try and change the mind-set of Makokoba suburb residents when it comes to littering. “We are glad the Makokoba community is now moving in the right direction in terms of waste management. They are now organised and united in fighting illegal dumping. “They are now able to address waste and even cause the arrest of people who are littering or bring them to us. It is our hope that they will continue doing so and as EMA we appreciate their efforts,” Mr Ndlovu said. He said there are still some dotted points that still need to improve on waste management for the city of Bulawayo to maintain its status of being the cleanest city countrywide. “We however, still have problems in some isolated cases in places like Pumula South and Cowdray Park. We urge them to work together and find ways of monitoring and managing waste within their areas. “People should also stop dumping waste along Old Gwanda Road on the boundaries of the city and in the neighbouring Matobo District in Matabeleland South. We are also appealing to all residents to join hands and fight illegal dumping,” Mr Ndlovu said. He said anyone found dumping waste was liable to a fine or imprisonment. “The law says no one should be found dumping, discarding or leaving litter on any land or water surface, street, road or site in or at any place except in a container provided or set apart for such purposes,” Mr Ndlovu said. Meanwhile, the Community Refuse Removal Project (CRRP) that was initiated by the Bulawayo City Council in June 2015 is yielding positive results. Under the project, truck owners with a capacity of between three and seven tonnes are engaged and they provide their own crews to undertake door to door collection of refuse with city council compactors collecting the refuse from a designated collection point. More than 245 jobs were created through the initiative. — @winnie_masara