 Oscar Rusenga in Triangle Triangle  2 – 0 Bulawayo Chiefs IN-FORM striker Lameck Nhamo continued with his purple patch as he scored a beauty of a goal from a free-kick that saw his side dispatching the visiting Bulawayo Chiefs in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Gibbo Stadium. Lameck scored his fifth goal of the season in the 18th minute curling his effort around the Amakhosi defence with the ball also beating Bulawayo Chiefs goalkeeper Kelvin Nyoni. Triangle have been impressive at home this season and it was no different against Chiefs but they could not find an early goal against the resolute visitors from open play despite creating so many chances in the opening half. The Sugar Sugar Boys coach Taurai Mangwiro made a first half tactical substitution introducing the more powerful Simba Makoni for youthful Delic Murimba as he sought to increase his team’s lead. However the home side had to wait longer before their insurance goal arrived. As chances went begging Dzingai Chirambamuriwo also looked into the sky with disbelief as he failed to bury two easy opportunities in a space of 30 seconds. Chirambamuriwo was hauled off with Russel Madamombe coming on for him in the 62nd minute. Substitute Dylan Chivandire had a chance to equalise but he failed to beat Triangle goalkeeper Tapiwa Chilenga in a one on one situation in the 75th minute. The spurned chance however came to haunt the visitors as the home side sealed the game two minutes later. Madamombe who was adjudged to have been fouled rose and dusted himself up to provide the second goal as his well taken set piece was arrowed into the net by Anelka in the 77th minute. The visitors almost got their consolation goal but Chilenga tipped Moses Majika’s rasping shot over the bar in what was the visitors last chance of real action with only four minutes remaining on the clock. The home side came into the match with tails between their legs after they were beaten 1-0 against Harare City in the capital in a mid-week match. Triangle coach Mangwiro said he was happy after returning to winning ways and gave credit to the visitors for playing good football. “I am happy that we have bounced back to winning ways after we were beaten by Harare City. We needed the win at all costs. We could have scored more goals but I want to give credit to our opponents, they are a formidable side. “It’s good to be in touch with the leading pack as we want to take each game as it comes,’’ Mangwiro said. Mangwiro’s Bulawayo Chiefs counterpart Garthly Chipuka was seething with anger over alleged bad officiating. “Basically l am not happy with the officiating…you know these teams are sponsored by individuals and you don’t expect to have this in return especially when results are determined by referees.Yes we created our chances and we failed to bury them,” Chipuka said. Triangle: T. Chilenga, D. Phiri, A. Chiveya, K. Chigwida, D. Dzvinyai, R.Kawondera (T. Huwa 74th min), A. Chiwandire, D. Murimba (S. Makoni 41st min), D. Chirambamuriwo (R. Madamombe 69th min), P. Bhamusi, L.Nhamo Bulawayo Chiefs:  K. Nyoni, M. Mkolo, A. Tandi, P. Moyo, L. Sithole, T. Mazuva, G. Muleya, M. Mpofu (D. Chivandire 64th min), B. Manhire, H. Moyo, M. Majika