Minister Mupfumira tours Shearwater Explorers’ Village in the company of the Lodge’s general manager Mrs Faith Madziwanyika in Victoria Falls yesterday Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls TOUR operating company Shearwater Adventures has set aside more than $30 million to construct budget lodges countrywide, chairman, Mr Mike Davis, has said. Yesterday the firm commissioned its Explorers Village, built at a cost of $4 million. The new facility opened its doors last year, and can accommodate 200 people at any given time. It has 60 campsite tents and 32 chalets. “We need to work together to take this country forward. We will be continuing with our growth and this is the first phase. Shearwater is happy to announce that it will be building lodges around Zimbabwe as one of its numerous expansion plans,” said Mr Davis. “Within the next four years we will invest $35 million towards this.” He said the Explorers Village was part of the first phase of the company’s expansion project. Tourism and Hospitality Industry Minister, Prisca Mupfumira, presided over the event during which she challenged operators in the sector to embrace the domestic tourist concept and come up with low cost facilities and services. “Today we are gathered to witness a milestone investment in the portfolio of Shearwater. This is in line with continuing trends in the tourism and leisure sector, which requires reciprocal transformation,” she said. “Our endeavour is to increase arrivals and this can be done by continuously improving our products and offering the best value for money and services, which will cause our tourists to return with more visitors.” Min Mupfumira said the new lodge was an important investment as it complements the accommodation deficiency of about 2 000 rooms in Victoria Falls. She said besides adding to accommodation, Shearwater Explorers Village, which is located behind the curio market, had added close to 100 jobs to the more than 400 already employed at the tour operating company. The minister said the development fits well with Government’s plan to make Victoria Falls a destination of choice and conference capital. The project further dovetails with implementation of the Special Exononic Zones (SEZs). The Victoria Falls SEZ will stretch from the resort town to Hwange, Lupane down to Mlibizi and Mana Pools. “We want Hwange to be on the international tourism map,” added Min Mupfumira. @ncubeleon