Melissa Mpofu, Showbiz Editor NEW Alabama jazz bar, an afro jazz themed nightspot ideal for the mature audience needing an exclusive upmarket place to meet up and relax was opened by the Bulawayo Rainbow Hotel on Thursday. It was launched through a classy cocktail event which was attended by some of the city’s high profile business executives and the hotel’s very own discerning guests. Befitting entertainment was provided by the Cool Crooners who delivered a well-polished act showing they still had it in them. Located in the basement of the three-star 181 roomed hotel, the New Alabama bar (former Groove) offers an exclusive, intimate and elegant environment to relax and unwind after a hard day’s work. “We realised that there was a gap in the market when it comes to the availability of a high end bar for the mature audience. The Bulawayo Rainbow Hotel is centrally located in the business district and is easily accessible making it the ideal meeting place,” said the hotel’s general manager Innocent Kufa. For now, the bar will operate four days a week, from Wednesday to Saturday, opening at 6PM till late. Asked what inspired the name of the bar, Kufa said: “The name Alabama was first given to the bar around 1987 when the Alabama song was the music hit of the day. Rebranding to the New Alabama Bar brings fond memories of the 80s heyday for many who’re now middle aged,” he said. With a seating capacity of 60, the welcoming contemporary décor inspires relaxation right from the time one walks into the bar. In celebration of some of Africa’s great afro pop artistes such as Zimbabwe’s very own Oliver Mtukudzi and South African Hugh Masekela, the New Alabama has mood lighting pictures of these and other legendary artists to add to the ambience of the bar. Also, in an effort to make every evening different and exciting, the bar has a weekly ‘gig-guide’ which normally consists of 80s and 90s music. There will be an Old School Thursdays with Uncle G on the deck, Friday Live Jazz with Band Fusion, Karaoke Nights, and to close the week will be Refreshing Saturdays. “Guests can look forward to the likes of local jazz legends the Cool Crooners and well-known jazz bands from around the country such as the Jabavu Drive, Mbeu and the Mhodzi tribe which are all part of the live performance line up,” said Kufa. “These artists and bands complement the Afro- jazz theme of the bar.” With Father’s Day coming up on June 17, the New Alabama bar presents a perfect getaway for fathers to relax with good music and an extensive beverage selection from whisky to vodka, brandy, cognac, wines and lagers. “We also want to bring back to life, the long forgotten brands which ushered a lot of people into the world of drinking like Don Juan, Barameda and Green Valley to mention a few. “The newly launched alcohol-free Castle, yes alcohol-free, is found in The New Alabama along with non-alcoholic wines and juices for those who do not want to indulge. As for the food, a delicious and affordable menu and cocktails are also served,” concluded Kufa.