Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter MOTO Moto striker Tatenda Ushe leads the race for the Southern Region Division One League’s Nokel Security Top Goal Scorer award for May with three goals going into the last match of the month. Ushe, whose team takes on title chasing Makomo this afternoon in a Hwange derby, will be hoping to score. He will have to dig into his bag of tricks as Makomo, who are third on the table with 13 points, two behind leaders Tsholotsho, are keen to get maximum points to keep up with the top sides. Grey Kufandada of Talen Vision won the April gong after scoring four goals. Other players that are in the running for the May leading marksman award are Zim Leopards’ Marlvin Dube, former Chicken Inn striker Thomas Chimenya, who now turns out for ZPC Hwange, and Zibusiso Dambo of ZRP Bulawayo. The trio has two goals each. Leopards are second from the bottom of the table and take on NRZ Leopards at Luveve Stadium this afternoon, with Dube expected to lead their search for their second win of the season, while Dambo’s ZRP Bulawayo are away to Main Line in Plumtree. Chimenya will lead ZPC Hwange’s strike force when they take on winless new boys Toronto at Luveve Stadium. Meanwhile, leaders Tsholotsho face tricky Indlovu Iyanyathela at Mzilikazi Barracks (formerly known as Brady Barracks). Indlovu Iyanyathela are coming from a 0-2 away loss to Mosi Rovers in Victoria Falls and will be hoping to hand Tsholotsho their first defeat of the season. A fortnight ago, Indlovu Iyanyathela beat ZPC Hwange at Mzilikazi Barracks and Tsholotsho have to be cautious in their approach. Second-placed Hwange will be at home to Talen Vision tomorrow. Week 8 Fixtures Today: Casmyn v Mosi Rovers (Turk Mine), Indlovu Iyanyathela v Tsholotsho (Mzilikazi Barracks), CIWU v Bosso 90 (Crescent,12PM), Main Line v ZRP Bulawayo (Plumtree), Toronto v ZPC Hwange (Luveve), Makomo v Moto Moto (Hwange), Zim Leopards v NRZ Leopards (Luveve, 12PM) Tomorrow: Hwange v Talen Vision (Hwange, 12PM) — @ZililoR