 Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau FORMER Zimbabwe international midfielder Kennedy Nagoli is one of the several football players from this country that at some point had a feel of playing at the Copa Coca-Cola tournament during their school days. Nagoli, went on to make a name for himself in the football circles among the players that featured in the inaugural edition of the tournament that has become the talking point for many when it comes to junior football development and investment in the country. Together with former Warriors captain Peter Ndlovu they were the first group of players to compete in the tournament in 1989 at Gifford High School where the finals were held. Nagoli and Ndlovu were playing for Manunure and Mzilikazi respectively. The two schools met in the final where Mzilikazi emerged winners. Another renowned player that came through this tournament, in particular from that group of players in 1989 is the late Benjamin Nkonjera, who was playing alongside Ndlovu at Mzilikazi. This inaugural edition marked the beginning of a journey that would see some of the players going places. The former national team midfielder, who was already turning out for Ziscosteel when he took part in the tournament remained with the club for a few more years before he went on to join Jomo Cosmos in South Africa, in 1993. He wrote his own piece of history to become the first ever local player to move to Brazil where he turned out for Santos FC. His football career continued to blossom as he featured for Greek sides Aris Salonika and PAS Giannina. He then ended his career in Cyprus. As the Copa Coca-Cola tournament marks its 30th anniversary this year, with the launch coming in a week’s time, these are some of the celebrated players that would always be part of the history and strides the annual competition has made over the years. While some will argue that he was already in the limelight when he took part in the Copa Coca-Cola tournament, Nagoli says the tournament provided him the breakthrough he needed to further his career. “It was something which comes in my mind even today because of the level of football now. “It demands a lot of which it was a great honour for me to participate in that because that’s where you get marketed. There will be lot of scouts and there will be a lot of managers, a lot is happening on that event. “So it was an honour for me and it was the honour from the Coca-Cola at secondary level though I was playing at Super League level, that’s where I managed to advance to play in Europe for 12 years,” said Nagoli. Nagoli believes the tournament is a challenge for the young players to rise to the occasion and take advantage of the platform to prove what they have. “With the improvement of what these guys are getting now it’s a challenge for them, which we say what Coca-Cola is doing is give these guys an opportunity to improve talent, to invest with talent. I think Coca-Cola is doing a great job,” said Nagoli. The 44-year-old is now the team manager for ZPC Kariba.