 Nqobile Tshili Chronicle Correspondent THE Apex Council, the umbrella body for civil servants has urged teachers not to go on strike when schools open on Tuesday next week, saying that have not yet exhausted all avenues to address their grievances. Teachers have threatened to down tools at the beginning of the second term next week if Government does not met their demands. In an interview yesterday, Mrs Cecelia Alexander, the chairperson of the Apex Council said employees have not reached an impasse with the employer and there is no need for a strike at the moment. She said it will be premature for teachers to embark on an industrial action as there is still room for negotiations. “The Apex Council has not yet reached a deadlock with the Government. The Government says it is ready to give us feedback on the concerns we raised. Therefore, it is premature for Apex to take action before exhausting the engagement process as a matter of procedure,” she said. Six teachers’ unions which fall under the Federation of Zimbabwe Educators Union (Fozeu) — Progressive Teachers’ Union of Zimbabwe (PTUZ), Zimbabwe Teachers’ Union (Zimta), Amalgamated Rural Teachers’ Union (Artu), Zimbabwe National Teachers’ Union (Zinatu), Zimbabwe Democratic Teachers’ Union (ZDTU) and Professional Educators’ Union of Zimbabwe (PEUZ) — recently threatened to strike when schools open next week. They argue that Government should negotiate with them separately since they have peculiar concerns that do not affect other civil servants. Mrs Alexander said before taking drastic action, civil servants should wait for Monday’s negotiations as they could yield positive results. “We are informing all civil servants that negotiations with Government are still underway and we will be meeting Government on Monday, May 7, 2018. We are anticipating to get a positive response on the concerns which have not been addressed for a long time. Feedback will be on review of salaries and allowances for all civil servants,” said Mrs Alexander. She said the Apex Council has presented some its challenges to Government including reinstatement of vacation leave, address institutional accommodation matters and housing for civil servants. Mrs Alexander also called on Government to address the welfare of its workers and for all instead of selectively addressing problems targeting sectors. The Government has already called on teachers not to embark on a legal strike urging them to give negotiations a chance. Minister of State for Presidential Affairs and Monitoring Implementation of Government Programmes Simbarashe Mumbengegwi on Wednesday said Government was committed to improving the working conditions of teachers. — @nqotshili