Amini Soma-Phiri Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter NEWLY appointed Bulawayo City FC coach Amini Soma-Phiri believes the municipal-owned outfit can climb out of the relegation zone where they are languishing second from the bottom with a paltry seven points from the 10 games. Amakhosi find themselves a massive 19 points behind runaway leaders Ngezi Platinum Stars, but Soma-Phiri, a firm believer in will power, is well aware that a win against Shabanie Mine at Barbourfields Stadium on Saturday will see them wheel away from the drop zone. In his first interview as boss of a Premier League club since his successful stint at childhood team Highlanders, who he led to the Easycall Cup glory and ended the season in the top four, Soma-Phiri said there was a need for everyone at the club to pull in one direction and have one clear vision. “I don’t think there is really anything difficult that needs to be done; all that is needed is for us to work with a clear vision of what we want to achieve as a club. It’s clear that as we move forward from here, we just need to get a result to move away from where this team is on the table,” said Soma-Phiri. He indicated that he was a bit sceptical about taking up the job offer when City parted ways with Darlington Dodo, as he was not sure of the attitude of the playing personnel, but after coming on board, he was now confident that the players are okay. “I was a bit hesitant at the start to take the job, but from what I have seen from the boys, I am amazed and extremely confident that we will rise. Yes, football is funny sometimes, but like I said, I am confident that we will rise,” Soma-Phiri said. When he took over the reins at Highlanders in a caretaker role in 2015, Soma-Phiri made a similar vow that Bosso’s lost pride would be restored and very few believed him. He went on to lift the NetOne sponsored Easycall Cup and in the process denying Chicken Inn a league and cup double. On their way to the Easycall Cup final under Soma-Phiri, Highlanders surprised all and sundry by beating pre-tournament favourites FC Platinum, who had been enjoying a good run, right in their backyard through a Knox Mutizwa goal in injury time. The win made Highlanders become the first team to beat FC Platinum in open play after the Zvishavane-based miners had gone for 18 league matches without a loss. After claiming the scalp of FC Platinum, who finished the season in third position in the league in 2015, Bosso went on to register a memorable 2-1 win over perennial rivals Dynamos to book their place in the final. It now remains to be seen whether Soma-Phiri can inspire City to replicate the same winning mentality with the array of talent at his disposal.