Pupils take part in the Mzilikazi Chess Festival in this file picture Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter ORGANISERS of the Africa Day Open Chess tournament have challenged schools to send teams to the event that will be held at Montrose High School in Bulawayo on Friday. Registration for the tournament organised by the Bulawayo Chess Association (BCA) started yesterday and closes tomorrow. Participants will compete in five categories, Open, Ladies, Junior A (Form 4 to 6), Junior B (Form 1 to 3) and development (Grade 7 going down). Registration fee for the Open and Ladies events has been set at $5, with secondary school participants paying $3, while primary school learners will fork out $2 to compete in the competition. “We are calling on schools to come as clubs so that we maintain the excitement of the development section. Introduction of the category at Bulawayo Chess Association organised competitions is part of the board’s initiatives to identify and nurture talent at grassroots levels and it is our hope that schools will respond positively,” said Elvis Shora, the BCA chairman. BCA introduced the development section in September last year at the Milton Open, and the Africa Day competition will be the fifth competition to play host to primary school learners. Friday’s competition will be BCA’s fourth event of the year after the Hillside Open, held on February 21 and won by Tapiwa Jele of Nkulumane, Nust Easter Open and the Independence Day Open. Castro Sibanda of Nust won both the Easter and the Independence titles. Nkulumane’s Phakamani Sithole is the defending Africa Day Open champion. Some of the top players expected to compete on Friday include the Nust duo of Kudakwashe Sibanda and Nigel Mabiza, Valentine Nkoma of Nkulumane, the ZRP Bulawayo pair of Sifiso Ncube and Shora, Tony Siyanyezu of Bulawayo Polytechnic as well as Bulawayo Chess Club’s Bruce Mhondiwa. Best ranked women’s player Tessa Gumirenhete of ZRP Bulawayo is also among the favourites. Meanwhile, 10 players that will accumulate most points at BCA organised competitions throughout the year will compete for the Bulawayo Championship to be held in December. “The desire for players to be part of the Bulawayo Championship in December, certainly motivates top players. Throughout the year, players pick up points by participating in our competitions and the top 10 will compete at the end of year Bulawayo Championship,” said Shora.