 Morris Mpala, MoB Capital Ltd NOW that Government has legalised growing of mbanje for medicinal purposes, there is a lot of talk about the implications of such a move. Mbanje also known as hashish/marijuana or cannabis is an illicit leafy drug that causes hallucinations and is believed to cause long term addiction. Health experts say prolonged use leads to mental challenges although research has not supported that. There is also a claim that excessive use leads to craving, which then makes one graduate to abuse of hardcore drugs. Mbanje itself is considered a lesser evil of the drug family. Its mysterious effect has divided opinion across the world. Those that use mbanje do not seem to suffer from long term mental problems nor lung related cases as compared to those smoking tobacco cigarettes. In addition, most users/abusers of the weed do not graduate to hard core drugs unless it is a financial thing as hard core drugs are usually beyond the reach of most people. Most mbanje users seem calm. It seems the drug acts as an appetiser and stimulant as most users after inhaling tend to be more productive to physical chores. The down side being they gormandise on food and some may graduate to hard core costly dangerous drugs. It has also been used as a hair food to aide growth of hair in some cases with sterling results. It is a good cash crop as it increases GDP of an area. We are not yet debating on the legality or illegality of it therefore. In some parts of the world it has been found to have medicinal properties that calm nerves. It is the medicinal properties of the drug that has gathered more momentum in the areas of research to derive more beneficial medicinal properties. Its pure state makes it a much more environmental friendly than cigars, which have nicotine and tar that cause cancer and more addiction. In some circles mbanje growing could be a means of generating revenue, putting prisoners to good use, documenting knowledge, cultural exchange, agricultural exchange and reducing unemployment. Large pieces of land in places like Binga and their good soils could grow the crop under irrigation using boreholes or water drawn from Zambezi River and along the green belt to sustain lives. Prison services in Hwange, Victoria Falls, Dete, Gokwe and other areas can benefit from this project as they have cheap labour. A small chemical processing plant can be established to transform the drug into all required medicinal combinations for export and use in local hospitals. This will require partnership with seasoned local and foreign private sector players. The Zambezi River will provide water for all the agricultural facilities for the entire project, which can run using solar energy. This can be the biggest of such facility in Africa for it to make financial sense. The project needs to also offer training facilities for mbanje growing, agricultural consultancy, doctors, encompass vegetable growing, animal husbandry, slaughter services and cooking lessons. It will be a self sustaining facility and a complete agricultural concern even though main focus will be growing mbanje for medicinal purposes. Benefits from the mbanje facility This could be a very popular tourist destination for local, regional and international players hence a major revenue stream. Employment opportunities are vast and indirectly through the entire value chain. This could be a huge export earner to various foreign medical institutions, with full correctional and rehabilitation services to would be inmates. This can offer room for collection of taxes. This could be a source of the much needed foreign direct investment. The southern region of Zimbabwe stands to benefit from mbanje growing projects using a model that can be replicated in other regions. Further, this is a green project that will put Zimbabwe on the world map. This is just about the beginning of commercialising prisons and lessening the burden on the Government coffers through mbanje project. IF YOU LIVE IN BULAWAYO PLEASE CONSERVE WATER IF YOU LIVE IN ZIMBABWE PLEASE SOS (SWITCH OFF SWITCHES) IF YOU LIVE IN ZIMBABWE PLEASE USE ELECTRICITY SPARINGLY SWITCH OFF SWITCHES (SOS) IF YOU LIVE ON PLANET EARTH PLEASE PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT This article was first published on MoB Capital platform on 27 April 2018. *Morris Mpala is the managing director of MoB Capital Limited, a Bulawayo-headquartered micro-finance institution with footprint across the country.