The Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards hosts Showbiz Correspondent MBO Mahocs, Gilmore Tee alongside Star FM’s Nokuthula “Noxy” Sithole and Phathisani Sibanda have been carefully selected to host the Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards (#RoilBAAs) taking place this Saturday. Mbo Mahocs and Phathisani will be joined on the main stage by Master Eli from Skyz Metro FM and veteran broadcaster Morris Touch. Welcoming guests on the red carpet will be Gilmore Tee, Nyasha “Diva” Mtamangira, Tsitsi Gumbo and Tinashe OkaMaskhosana. To add to the fun, a team of fashion police has been assembled to vet and grill guests on their outfits. The team comprises of Star FM’s Noxy, commercial model Marcu Kumbie, fashion stylist Noelu and radio presenter Mpumelelo “LELO” Moyo. Two hours have been set aside for the red carpet affair that is expected to be rolled out at 4PM. The awards ceremony is slated to kick off at 6:30PM. Mbo Mahocs, who is based in South Africa, said she could not wait to host the awards. “I’m excited to be hosting the Bulawayo Arts Awards this year. Nothing beats pouring my craft, especially at home. It’s a huge reward I don’t take for granted,” said Mbo Mahocs.  This will be one of the major events that the TV host will be responsible for since relocating to the neighbouring country. Since she will be the only female host on the night, Mbo said: “It doesn’t make me feel any better about myself because it could’ve been anyone else. There’re so many talented ladies in Bulawayo and Zimbabwe as a whole. It’s simply Gods grace.” The Global Citizen as Gilmore Tee is known said he missed the awards last year and was glad to have an opportunity to host the red carpet. “Last year, I missed the awards and when the opportunity to co-produce the red carpet event and be an anchor host rose, I was extremely thrilled. It’s such an honour to be part of this fast growing initiative. “Above all, I’m really excited to be working with some of the best individuals in the industry. We promise magic,” said Gilmore Tee.