Thandiwe Katinhimure, Business Reporter ZAMBIA has commended the quality of products from Zimbabwe that were displayed at the country’s pavilion during the recent Agritech expo held in Chisamba, Zambia. In its latest monthly trading report, Zimtrade said Zambian President Edgar Lungu visited the country’s stand and commended suppliers of agricultural inputs and implements, which he said can play a critical role in the development of the Zambian agricultural sector. “The President of Zambia, His Excellency Edgar Lungu, commended the quality of products on display in the Zimbabwean pavilion at the Agritech Expo recently held in Chisamba, Zambia,” said Zimtrade. “He further urged Zimbabwean companies to set up distribution centres and partner with local Zambian entities as this model is in sync with their national development goals.” Zimtrade said the products showcased were complemented by crop demonstration plots, which proved to be popular with the Zambian farmers. “Both commercial and small-holder farmers were impressed with the efficacy of herbicides and fertilisers used on the demonstration plots,” said Zimtrade. It added Zimbabwean companies expressed satisfaction as they greatly benefited from the expo and identified business potential positioned in Zambia, with $500 000 worth of deals negotiated by the close of the show. “The exhibition has opened a channel for us into Zambia and other neighbouring markets such as DRC and Angola,” Almin Metal Industries sales and marketing manager, Mr Edwin Mungure, was quoted as saying. Zimtrade cited chief executive officer of Mono Pump, Mr Austin Tigere, who appreciated ZimTrade’s support in developing relations with potential clients as well as distributors for their products in Zambia. It advised Zimbabwean companies to leverage on their proximity to the Zambian market and take advantage of the similarities in the climate and general agricultural practices between the two countries. The Zimbabwean products on show under the ZimTrade banner included, fertilisers, animal and crop chemicals, ox and tractor drawn implements, post-harvest processing equipment, aluminium pipes and fittings, plastic pipes and pumps, among others. @thandyfeminine