Michael Magoronga, Midlands Correspondent Midlands province has started preparations for this year’s edition of the National Youth Games they will host in August. Midlands provincial sports and recreation development officer Simon Masaka said a fundraising dinner scheduled for May 25 will officially mark the beginning of preparations for the 16th edition of the National Youth Games. “The fundraising dinner will take place at Midlands State University (MSU), which has turned out to be a major contributor to the preparations of the games,” said Masaka. He said $1.9 million has been budgeted for the games that start on August 15. “We have submitted a budget of $1.9 million to the Sports and Recreation Commission and are awaiting their response. It’s subject to be reduced or increased depending on a review done by the planning committee,” said Masaka. He said Gweru and Kwekwe will be host venues for the games. “Most games will take place in Gweru while some, mostly indoor games and cricket, will be played in Kwekwe,” he said. Masaka said most facilities were ready for use while some need sprucing up before the games. “We have the Chaplin High School athletics track that will need to be spruced up. We also have the Josiah Tungamirai Airbase tennis court that needs its surface upgraded,” he said. Other venues to be used include Regina Mundi High School, Midlands State University, Mkoba Teachers’ College, Thornhill High School, Ascot Stadium, Police Ground and Kwekwe Sports Club. Masaka said the games, which have incorporated the Paralympics for the first time, will run in two phases. “The first block, which will run from 15 to 20 August will include the Under-13 and Under-18 age groups, while the second part of Under-23 age groups and virtual provinces will be from 22 to 28 August,” he said. On roping in Paralympics, he said it was a decision they made in a quest to give equal opportunities to both the disabled and able bodied athletes. Last year, the competition introduced the Under-23 category that has seen participation from community teams, uniformed forces and institutions like the Zimbabwe National Army and tertiary institutions.