 Prince Sunduzani, Business Reporter AN Indonesian company, Shine Africa Brilliant, says it is ready to invest $1 million in partnerships with food processing firms in Zimbabwe. The giant factory is also planning to establish a noodle manufacturing plant in the country as a way of expanding its business into Zimbabwe. In an interview with Business Chronicle at the just-ended Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) last week, Indonesian Deputy Ambassador to Zimbabwe, Dr Partogi Samosir, said once paperwork and all approvals have been acquired work will commence. Over the years, the company has managed to set up about six instant noodle manufacturing factories in Africa. “In this trade fair, Indonesia through an export company Shine Africa Brilliant is exhibiting very famous instant noodles. We have established instant noodles factories in Nigeria, Egypt, Sudan, Morocco, Ethiopia and Kenya and now we are looking to establish a factory in Zimbabwe. This will happen as soon as possible,” he said. Dr Samosir noted that his country was looking to strengthen business relations between the two countries whose trade volumes stand at $800 000 dollars annually. He said they have already identified about 50 prospective partners to work with in the food processing industry and were ready to invest about $1 million in the partnerships. “At this trade fair we are looking for partners. We are very confident because right now we have identified about 30 to 50 partners in the food stuffs business. This will include food stuffs like biscuits, snacks, sweets cooking oil, milk, margarine and baby food. We are ready to invest about $1 million,” said Dr Samosir. The development comes at a time when there is hyped interest from international companies to invest and set up business in the country. Embassies and foreign companies that exhibited at the ZITF last week expressed their interest in the country, which has embraced an open for business agenda after years of economic and political isolation. A total of 19 foreign companies showcased at the biggest edition of the trade show in a decade compared to 13 which came last year. United Arab of the Emirates made its maiden appearance at ZITF with exhibits from producers of energy products and consumer goods. A number of countries and individual companies expressed confidence and their eagerness to strengthen economic ties with Zimbabwe. @PrinceNkosy102