Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent LIEUTENANT Colonel Jabulani Mulambo is the new 4.1 Brigade Combat Group Commander in Masvingo after taking over from Lt Col Lovemore Jiyane who has been posted to All Arms Battle School in Nyanga. In his acceptance speech during a colourful hand-over-take-over ceremony at 4.1 Combat Group headquarters on Wednesday, Lt Col Mulambo hailed his predecessor, Lt Col Jiyane for maintaining discipline within the force. “I am indeed humbled to accept and take over command of a functional, fit and well administered unit. I would like from the onset, to show my appreciation to the command element of the Zimbabwe National Army 4 Brigade Commander in general for affording me yet another opportunity to command one of his prestigious units,” said Lt Col Mulambo. Lt Col Mulambo who has been heading 4.3 Reserve Force in Masvingo also hailed his boss, Commander 4 Infantry Brigade, Brigadier General Exebios Tshuma for his wise counsel, during his previous command. “ I would also want to thank, 4 Infantry Brigade Commander, Brigadier General Tshuma, who is this ceremony’s chief witnessing officer. Sir, in your capacity, as commander, I wish to thank your wise guidance that you continue to give us, as companies, in our day to day command,” he said. Lt Col Jiyane commended the discipline that the officers at 4.1 Combat Group had, during his tenure and urged them to continue being exemplary, to the force and community. “I am handing over and leaving today with a wealth of experience and I am thankful for the skills I have acquired. I will always treasure working here, working here has been a fantastic learning experience,” said Lt Col Jiyane. He described his command, as sometimes harsh but took pride that such approach, produced positive results at the end. “There were times when I became harsh in order to get things done and I do not regret. I would do it all over again when faced with similar situations. I will always remember you, as the memories live in the most important part of our minds. It has been a pleasure working here and I will truly miss it,” said Lt Col Jiyane.—@walterbmswazie2.