 Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THERE were three knockouts at the international amateur boxing tournament featuring Zimbabwe and Botswana pugilists at Sizinda South Beer Garden in Bulawayo at the weekend. Zimbabwe’s boxers won five of the nine bouts against their Botswana counterparts in the tournament that started on Saturday and ended on Sunday morning. Local boxer Rambo Kudakwashe was the first to deliver a knockout; knocking the lights out of Atlegang Ditau in bout number three. The other two knockouts were in favour of the visitors, with Thusa Tlhotheletsa taking out Pritchard Dube in a 60kg fight, while Tsephang Kapinga knocked out Washington Ziwakaya in a 64kg duel. Zimbabwe boxers went on to win on points, with Ndabezinhle Phiri getting a unanimous judges’ decision against Kgosi Mosimakoko in the 46-49kg, while Mand Marusenga, Wezi Chinwa and Sithabile Ngwenya won their respective bouts. Marusenga fought Raymong Madumetsa in a 56kg bout, Chinwa won against Brian Galelemogwe (60kg) and Ngwenya beat Marion Lucas 2-1 in a 48-51kg bout. Botswana boxers, who won on points, were Festus Madiehe, who edged Knowledge Maniku in the 46-49kg bill, and Oteng Letloa, who beat Tinotenda Zvinavashe in a 52kg fight. Stephen Masiyambumbi, the country’s amateur boxing technical director, was happy with the tournament’s outcome and said Zimbabwe boxers will travel to Botswana for a return leg in July. “The tournament was a success and it gave both countries an opportunity to look at their young boxers. Botswana brought their youth team to assess their progression as they prepare for the African Union Sports Council (AUSC) Region 5 Games that they will host in December. “As Zimbabwe, we had some of our boxers preparing for the Youth Olympics Qualifiers to be held in Morocco soon. We also took time to look at some of the boxers for national team consideration,” said Masiyambumbi. Besides hosting Botswana, Sizinda South Beer Garden also hosted bouts by local pugilists from the country’s provinces. “This tournament was a success and we thank organisations like Ingwebu, National Aids Council and our hosts Sizinda South Beer Hall for making our tournament a success. “They made it possible for us to feed over 100 boxers, provided the PA system and even allowances for the judges. With such partners, the sport of boxing will grow,” Masiyambumbi said. @ZililoR