VP Chiwenga Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief VICE President retired General Constantino Chiwenga has urged Zimbabweans to prove the country’s detractors wrong by conducting free, fair and credible elections. Addressing thousands of people who thronged Mandava Stadium in Zvishavane to witness the official handover of the stadium to Zvishavane Town Council by Mimosa Mines yesterday, VP Chiwenga said elections were upon the country as per the requirements of the Constitution. He said all Zimbabweans regardless of political affiliation should lead by example and campaign and vote in peace. “Now as we go for those elections, first they must be peaceful, they must be held in a peaceful environment so we can achieve fairness so that no one cries foul. The ballot should do the talking, people should choose their leaders. Zimbabwe has come of age and we are not a violent people. If we conduct the elections in a free environment, we will shame those who think we are a violent country,” said VP Chiwenga. He said President Mnangagwa will soon announce the dates for the harmonised elections, adding that time for political wars was an era of the past. “What you did last year during Operation Restore Legacy is commendable and that spirit should take us through to the elections. We had a united and peaceful front as we ushered in President Mnangagwa and that spirit should prevail before, during and after the elections,” said the Vice President. He said President Mnangagwa should be commended for paving a way for the holding of elections under the new dispensation. VP Chiwenga said there was only one Zimbabwe with abundant natural resources and land for agriculture which should be led by a man of vision who is President Mnangagwa. “With President Mnangagwa, our hero who was born and grew up in Zvishavane in Mapanzure village, we see a great Zimbabwe as he is a person with a soft heart who is only concerned about socio-economic development of Zimbabwe. We should therefore go and vote for him so that the country develops and becomes a hub of economic development for the region and beyond,” he said. Mimosa Mines spent millions of dollars to upgrade Mandava Stadium to a state-of-the art stadium and is now the homeground of its football club, FC Platinum.