Mr Robert Mugabe Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter FORMER President Mr Robert Mugabe yesterday snubbed the Mines and Energy Parliamentary Portfolio committee which had invited him to give oral evidence on alleged diamond leakages at Chiadzwa. Mr Mugabe did not give an explanation on his failure to appear before the committee prompting the committee to postpone the hearing to Monday next week. The committee members, media and other officials waited for Mr Mugabe at Parliament’s Senate chambers to no avail. Committee chairperson, Norton legislator (Norton) Mr Temba Mliswa said they would give Mr Mugabe a chance to appear before the committee next Monday. “We have resolved that we will write to the former President, His Excellency RG Mugabe to appear on Monday at 2 O’clock. The committee is also cognisant of the fact that 9 O’clock was a bit too early to ask the former President to be here and as you would also appreciate that when he was in office he would address Cabinet at 12 noon,” said Mr Mliswa. He said they were expecting him to cooperate with the committee as it seeks to conclude its hearings on the diamond leakages. “We are not here to humiliate him as you can see with our letter so we expect him to have enough time to prepare so on Monday we expect Parliament to have  written to him. We don’t expect not to get any cooperation because Parliament has the power to summon anyone and we don’t want to think we would do that,” said Mr Mliswa. The vocal legislator said Parliament will not dissolve before their reports and recommendations have been tabled. “Next week you may look forward to the release of the Chivayo report with more to follow,” he said. The decision to summon the former Head of State and Government followed a claim he made in February 2016 that the country could have been prejudiced of more than $15 billion in revenue from Chiadzwa diamonds. Mr Mugabe’s expected appearance before the committee yesterday attracted scores of local and foreign media who were expecting to see the former President making his first public appearance since his resignation last year. The committee had last week mooted having the hearing at Mr Mugabe’s residence but they later changed after some members of the same committee turned down the proposal. Home Affairs Minister Dr Obert Mpofu refused to appear before the committee insisting that Mr Mliswa should recuse himself. “Regarding Honourable Mpofu, the matter requires procedure to be followed as is taking place. Advocate Mudenda is a professional and meticulous Speaker and I’ve no doubt that the resolution will be passed in due course,” said Mr Mliswa. @AuxiliaK