The late Bongani ‘Bongo’ Ndlovu Codelia Mondela, Court Reporter TWO men from Bulawayo who allegedly killed a popular cross border transporter (umalayitsha) Bongani “Bongo” Ndlovu have each been granted $300 bail. Michael Nqabayezwe Ndebele (22) from Lemon Groove, Hillcrest, and Adrian Sabelo Mguni (29), a messenger of court, allegedly assaulted Ndlovu at Zarah Lounge and he fell hitting the ground with the back of his head. Yesterday, the gallery was jammed with Bongo’s relatives and friends. A majority were clad in purple T-shirts with his picture printed on them. People attending different cases had to wait outside the court- room as it was crowded with no seats available. Ndebele and Mguni made their way into the dock from the cells with their heads bowed while Bongo’s relatives stared at them silently. The duo kept their heads down even after the magistrate Mr Sheunesu Matova granted them bail after they got consent from the Prosecutor General at the High Court. “Accused persons are to deposit $300 bail each, should reside at given addresses and not interfere with State witnesses. Accused persons are to report at Bulawayo Central Police Station three times a week and surrender all travelling documents till the matter is finalised,” said Magistrate Matova. They will be back in court on May 21 for routine remand. Their lawyer, Mr Tanaka Muganyi of Tanaka Law Chambers, last week said they were giving notice to the State while making an application for further refusal of remand for Ndebele. However, yesterday he said they would not pursue the application stating that all matters would be addressed in due course. “We are no longer pursuing the application for further refusal of remand for accused one. Those issues will be dealt with at the trial,” he said. Prosecuting, Mr Maclean Ndlovu said the two assaulted Ndlovu with fists on April 28 at Zarah Lounge. “Ndlovu fell hitting the ground with the back of the head. He died at United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) on the same day due to injuries sustained as a result of the attack,” he said. Bongo was buried on Sunday at West Park Cemetery in a moving ceremony. @MondelaC