 Michael Magoronga, Midlands Correspondent MIDLANDS Provincial Affairs Minister Owen Ncube has called on police to deal decisively with criminals and arrest people behind machete attacks that have resurfaced in Kwekwe. Speaking during the launch of the Kwekwe Roads Rehabilitation Programme in Mbizo recently, Minister Ncube said it was worrying that machete attacks had resurfaced in the city. He said those behind the criminal activities were going against President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s Zimbabwe is open for business mantra aimed at attracting investment. “Police should arrest these culprits, they are bad for business. Machete attacks drive away potential investors who might want to come and invest in the province. “Those who are doing so should stop forthwith because they are going against President Mnangagwa’s vision of attracting investment for economic recovery. “Those found with machetes should be arrested even when they have not attacked anyone because the police have such powers. They are causing havoc in the province and police must do their job of arresting these people,” said Minister Ncube. He condemned some unnamed people whom he accused of protecting criminals by not revealing the whereabouts of violence perpetrators who will be on the police wanted list. “I urge the police to fearlessly conduct their duty, arrest everyone linked to the machete attacks, even those who try to defeat the course of justice by hiding such criminals,” the Minister said. “Machetes are just bad for business, who would want to come and invest in the province when youths are behaving like animals. Let us have peace to attract investors”. Meanwhile, Police in Kwekwe have reinforced patrols in the district following the resurfacing of machete attacks. Speaking during the official launch of more patrols in the CBD, Officer Commanding Kwekwe, Chief Superintendent David Tiesse, said patrols have been increased to ensure the safety of the public. “We want to increase visibility of police details on the streets so that the public is safe and reduce reaction time,” he said. Chief Supt Tiesse said incidences involving machete attacks were on the increase in the district. Chief Supt Tiesse said police would conduct random body searches in and around the city adding it would be an offence if one is caught in possession of a machete, knife, knobkerrie, an axe or catapult among other dangerous weapons.