Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter BULAWAYO Chiefs players have turned their focus to the “big” home encounter against Dynamos after resolving their four-month salary backlog dispute with the club. Chiefs take on Dynamos at Barbourfields Stadium on Sunday in Week 11 of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League smarting from a 0-2 defeat to Triangle United. The loss saw the league debutants, who had a bright start, slipping down the Premiership table from eighth to ninth place. They played against Triangle while players’ morale was at the lowest ebb due to unpaid wages. Players told Chronicle Sport yesterday that they had reached an agreement with club director Lovemore Sibanda that they will share prize money from the PSL at the end of the season. “The director came and told us his position that he was trying his best to clear our salaries and keep the team afloat. He said since he is funding the team alone, he will continue giving us ‘keep goings’ and encouraged us to keep our heads high as we play to market ourselves. We agreed that we will not strike after making it clear that we will share the money we will get at the end of the season,” said a senior player. The money the players will share will be determined by the team’s position at the end of the season. Last year’s Premiership champions FC Platinum got $100 000 while the four relegated teams Harare City, Hwange, Tsholotsho and Bantu Rovers each got $5 000. Chiefs chairman James Rugwevere could neither confirm nor deny that Sibanda dangled the prize money to the players to save the club embarrassment. “Unfortunately I wasn’t there when the director spoke to the players but I know they agreed on something,” said Rugwevere. Sibanda could not be reached for comment. The players said they were raring to go motivated by the prospect of attracting other teams during the mid-season transfer window. Dembare face Chiefs after it fired coach Lloyd Mutasa on Wednesday following 1-2 loss to Harare City. Besides the prospects of a big pay cheque from Sunday’s gate takings, Chiefs will be out for maximum points to end their three-match winless streak. Chiefs’ last victory was in Week Seven when they stunned champions FC Platinum 2-0 at Luveve Stadium. This was followed by two consecutive draws against Black Rhinos and Herentals before the defeat by Triangle. Fixtures Tomorrow: FC Platinum v Triangle United (Mandava), ZPC Kariba v Mutare City Rovers (Nyamhunga), Yadah FC v Highlanders (National Sports Stadium), Bulawayo City v Shabanie Mine (Barbourfields) Sunday: Caps United v Ngezi Platinum Stars (National Sports Stadium), Chapungu v Chicken Inn (Ascot), Bulawayo Chiefs v Dynamos (Barbourfields), Black Rhinos v Herentals (Rufaro) — @ZililoR