Lovemore Zigara in Gweru ANOTHER Gweru derby explodes tomorrow when FC Lesaffre takes on the expensively assembled Sheasham in the Zimbabwe General Medical Aid Fund Central Region Soccer League (ZGMAF – CSL) encounter at Wilson Fields. FC Lesaffre come into this match still smarting from a 1–2 loss to TelOne last week, a result which saw the yeast manufacturers suffering their first loss of the season in five matches. On the other hand, the Finhu Finhu Boys have Chrome Stars to thank for pulling out of the league which leaves them unbeaten and still to concede a goal in the three games they have played so far. Chrome Stars which beat Sheasham 1–0 on the opening day of the season withdrew after facing sponsorship challenges and its results were thrown away by the league management. Sheasham head coach Jeremiah Neganda said his side would want to maintain their unbeaten record and tomorrow’s tie will test their pedigree. “We are prepared for the game and it being a derby it is going to be a tough game. As a team we do not want to concede and for us three points would mean that we maintain a top four position which is our objective for this season,” he said. His  FC Lesaffre counterpart, Peter Manoti said the game gives his lads another opportunity to expose themselves especially playing against a side with experienced players. “It is again another good opportunity for my team to play against a team like Sheasham which has experienced players. It will be good for the boys to play a game like this and if we get a result it will be good for us,” said Manoti. Elsewhere, another derby is in the offing this afternoon at Mkoba Stadium where giant killers MSU and TelOne face off. MSU shocked Whawha 1–0 at Whawha Grounds stopping their four match unbeaten run while TelOne did the same to FC Lesaffre last weekend. It will be a battle of wits between the Varsity Sharks coach Joseph Michael and his TelOne counterpart Joel Luphahla. Fixtures Today: Black Eagles vs Whawha (Simbi), MSU vs Telone (Mkoba), Ivan Hoe vs Vumbachikwe (Amaveni) Tomorrow: FC Lesaffre vs Sheasham (Wilson Fields), FC Platinum Under 19 vs ZPC Munyati (Mandava), Blanket Mine vs Tongogara (Blanket) — @lavuzigara1