Alick Macheso Melissa Mpofu, Showbiz Editor Zimbabwean show promoters are consistently bringing bigger international acts to locals, Davido, Lira and Freshly Ground have graced Harare stages and now the Prince of Rhumba music Fally Ipupa is the next audacious big act. The show taking place at the HICC next Saturday is already gathering momentum in the region and will certainly be one not to miss as the Congolese superstar has proven himself the stalwart in Zenith, Kinshasa and Zambia. There are a few concerns however, about his local supporting acts which may not complement the main act of the night. Oliver Mtukudzi is the biggest local act along with Diamond Musica (also from the DRC) and the new kid on the block Juntal. Tuku, in as much as he is the legend in this line-up, might see himself as the misfit there. Watching the Davido show recently, it was clear that the entire line-up, MCs and DJs were built for high energy Afro pop culture in which Jah Prayzah (the only cross over artiste) blended well with Davido. In the case of Tuku, there will need to be a serious switch up from mellow Afro Jazz to high energy rhumba music. One would therefore believe that a sungura artiste such as Alick ‘Extra Basso’ Macheso would be the only complement as he equally rocked the stage with Koffi Olomide at the 2016 Harare International Carnival rhumba night that was held at the Long Cheng Plaza. There is no string that businessman Genius ‘Ginimbi’ Kadungure — the show promoter — cannot pull and it will certainly be a full house if Macheso closes down the show. Revellers will feel the justification for any ticket price as Macheso is known to leave his fans weak in the knees and almost always will play an extended set which pours cash into the bar and a guaranteed return. But Ginimbi is convinced his line-up will bring in the right crowds, especially considering that the concert is specifically being hosted for rhumba lovers. “When shows are hosted, I’ve noticed that people often want to see big names with over 20 artistes on the line-up. But we can’t always do that as it’s an unnecessary cost which can be avoided by carefully selecting artistes,” said Ginimbi. He said big names such as Tuku and Fally Ipupa were good enough for this show likely explaining why two of the country’s most sought after artistes, Jah Prayzah and Winky D were conveniently left out. Tuku and Fally will however, be joined by local up-and-coming rhumba artiste Juntal and DJs, Royal DJs, Selekta Base, Raydizz and Trill Angel. Many have commended Ginimbi, a Harare socialite who is famous for hosting controversial all-white birthday parties — for venturing into the local showbiz by promoting shows. They are pleading with him to frequently bring in more international acts considering that he is monied and seems to do so with so much ease. Ginimbi, who closely interacts with artistes in South Africa where he is based, became a ‘saint’ recently after he successfully brought in Nigeria’s Davido who, since last year, had been playing hard to get. He however said while he is up to the task, the Fally Ipupa concert would determine his future in local showbiz. “My decision on whether or not to venture into showbiz/promotion of shows will be determined by this forthcoming concert. If the Fally Ipupa show is successful, then I’ll definitely continue hosting more shows. “But if it flops, then there’ll be no need to waste time and money,” said Ginimbi, a renowned businessman. He said preparations for the event were going on well with Fally Ipupa expected in Harare next Friday.