Minister Angeline Masuku Prince Sunduzani, Businesses Reporter BULAWAYO Provincial Affairs Minister, Angeline Masuku, says a 17-member “think tank” that was established to spearhead the revival of Bulawayo industries has started working and is advising Government on how to turn-around the city’s fortunes. The group was set up at the beginning of this year following recommendations by business leaders to gather information and identify problem areas that need to be addressed for the revitalisation of the former industrial hub. Made up of mainly business leaders, the select group reports directly to the minister’s office. Minister Masuku told Business Chronicle that the think tank was already on the ground working, and was engaged in research work and finding solutions that Bulawayo needs for her restoration. “The think tank has already started advising me on issues concerning Bulawayo industries and investment. They are collecting information on Bulawayo industries. This information will be available to investors who wish to invest in the city,” she said. Minister Masuku is on record as saying her office was overwhelmed by investors intending to invest in Bulawayo hence the need for a think tank. The Bulawayo think tank board will intermediate between investors and Government as it is tasked with recommending joint ventures and give guidelines on any business growth in the city. The new board held its maiden meeting in January where members toured Bulawayo’s industrial area to get an appreciation of the state of affairs. Its members are drawn from across 17 economic sectors, which include leather and textiles, manufacturing among others. Once the industrial hub of Zimbabwe, Bulawayo has suffered massive de-industrialisation in the face of a harsh economic climate that has seen some companies closing shop as others scaled down or relocated. It has been reported that the city has recorded remarkable improvement in industrial revival since 2013, riding on interventions by the Government and private sector input. Industry captains and experts have also aired a number of conflicting suggestions, which they think will help improve Bulawayo including abandoning old industries and focusing on new ones, capacity building existing companies and adopting the Special Economic Zones model. @PrinceNkosy102