 Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent WELL travelled and award-winning imbube group Black Umfolosi will be honoured by the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (NACZ) as Arts and Culture ambassadors during the National Culture week provincial launch in Bulawayo. The event will be held at Inyathi Youth Centre in Mpopoma next week Monday. This is part of commemorating Culture Week which is running under the theme Culture: A Tool for Building Communities. The national launch will be in Matabeleland South on Saturday at Bolamba Culture Centre in Gungwe, Gwanda South. In a statement, NACZ Bulawayo programmes officer William Nyandoro said: “The Bulawayo edition will be held in honour of Black Umfolosi as Arts and Culture ambassadors who have flown the country’s flag high and have been an inspiration to many artists and groups. “The group’s longevity in the arts industry is something to be recognised and celebrated. Their song Unity is one of the iconic songs ever produced in Zimbabwe.” For the past 36 years of the group’s existence, Black Umfolosi has toured Europe, America, Canada and Africa spreading Zimbabwean culture through song and dance. Nyandoro said during the celebrations, selected groups would honour Black Umfolosi through song and dance. “Various traditional groups will pay homage to Black Umfolosi through song and dance and these include Nobuntu, Ukukhayakwezwe, Umdumowesizwe, IbutholikaKristu, Indosakusa, Thandanani Women’s Ensemble and Msitheli High School,” said Nyandoro. Meanwhile, preparations for the Culture Week national launch are gaining steam. Activities at the fete will include a Chiefs Procession, Art and Craft Fair, traditional dances, contemporary performances, praise poetry, music, food exhibitions and herbal medicine exhibitions. Clement Magwaza, gospel musician Tholakele Ndlovu, poet Lerato “Nqindi” Ndlovu, Inqama Yophondo dance group, How mine Chioda dance group, How mine Ben Arinoti and Secret Heart High School drama group are some of the groups who will provide entertainment. To spice up the celebrations, a group from Japan, Iyco & Kaka Furaha that is here on a Cultural Exchange programme will also perform. Exhibitors on the day will include Ministry of Women Affairs, Gender and Community Development, Gwanda Cultural Artefacts Association, Savuka Arts Association, Hand in Hand Zimbabwe and Maphani Culture Centre. Admission is free to the national launch.