Mr Utoile Silaigwana Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter THE Zimbabwe Electoral Commission has been urged to consider e-platforms to enable citizens to verify their voter registration status as well as availing more centres during the 10-day verification process. The electoral body has announced that it will open the country’s Provisional Voters’ Roll for inspection by the public from May 19 to 29 in preparation for the forthcoming 2018 elections In a statement yesterday, the Zimbabwe Election Support Network (ZESN) called on the Zec to ensure that there is adequate publicity of the exercise to ensure that all registered voters avail themselves to check their registration details during the 10-day period. “ZESN reiterates its calls for Zec to consider the integration of SMS systems and secure web platforms to enable citizens to verify their registration status and details virtually. The network believes that such an arrangement would speed up the rectification of any errors in registration details in the system. In addition, ZESN urges the Zec to timeously publicise the location of the inspection centres to enable the electorate to know well ahead of time where inspection will be taking place. This will guarantee full participation of the electorate in the exercise,” read the statement. ZESN, a network of non-governmental organisations, said Zec should consider providing regular updates on the de-duplication process in order to build confidence. In its recommendations, ZESN said the use of the SMS systems or web- based applications for the voters’ roll inspection would quicken the process of inspection, de-congest registration centres and swiftly rectify any errors and ensure that individuals who might not be able to physically present themselves at the inspection centres are catered for. “The Commission should ensure adequate publicity and voter education of the voters’ roll inspection to provide comprehensive information to the electorate. The voter education should be inclusive of vulnerable groups, for example people with disabilities. The Voters’ roll Inspection Regulations should prescribe clear procedures and stipulated timeframes for the filing of appeals, objections and complaints by aggrieved persons,” recommended ZESN. The electoral network also urged Zec to provide regular updates on the de-duplication and other BVR processes to promote transparency and to open many centres for inspection given the 10 day period that has been set for the process. “ZESN therefore, urges the Government of Zimbabwe to avail adequate resources to the Zec to ensure that they fulfill this mandate,” read the statement. Zec’s Acting Chief Elections Officer Mr Utoile Silaigwana said that the Commission would shortly publicise the manner in which inspection would be done. “The purpose of the Provisional Voters’ Roll inspection is to allow members of the public to check if their details were correctly captured and if not, have anomalies corrected. Once all the corrections have been taken on board, the Commission will then produce the final voters’ roll that will be used in the forthcoming harmonised elections,” Mr Silaigwana said. @AuxiliaK