 Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter THE High Court yesterday granted bail pending trial to two men who were part of a mob accused of assaulting their neighbour to death for allegedly stealing a dog and satchel in Filabusi in Insiza District. Mthokozisi Ndlovu (23) of Denje village in Avoca area under Chief Maduna died about six hours after the alleged brutal assault. After the attack, the suspects allegedly dumped his body in a bush. Steven Tshuma (33) and Hampton Moyo (27), both of Denje village, were each granted $50 bail pending trial by Bulawayo High Court judge Justice Nokuthula Moyo. The judge ordered the two men not to interfere with witnesses and to reside at their given addresses until the matter is finalised. Tshuma and Moyo allegedly connived with Simon Siziba (33) and Lesley Sithole (35) and attacked Ndlovu. The quartet assaulted Ndlovu and he died before he could be taken to hospital. The ruling by Justice Moyo follows an application by Tshuma and Moyo through their lawyer Mr Kholwani Ngwenya of TJ Mabhikwa and Partners. In their grounds of appeal, Tshuma and Moyo said there were no compelling reasons justifying their continued detention pending trial, arguing that there was no likelihood of absconding. They argued that they have a strong and good prima facie defence against the charge laid against them. “There is no inducement on their part to flee from this jurisdiction as they are desirous to stand trial and clear their names. In fact, both applicants surrendered themselves to the police on hearing that they were being sought after,” said Mr Ngwenya. The State, through Ms Nokuthaba Ngwenya, opposed bail pending trial arguing that due to the gravity of the offence, there was no guarantee that if granted bail, the two men would not abscond. She said the State has a strong prima facie case against the applicants, arguing that it has evidence from its witnesses. Ms Ngwenya said the two men only decided to hand themselves over to the police after discovering that the net was closing in on them. According to court papers, it is alleged that on January 18 this year, Moyo and Tshuma ganged up with Sithole and Siziba and assaulted the now-deceased with logs all over the body, accusing him of stealing a dog and a satchel. They dumped his lifeless body in the bush. Sithole and Siziba were arrested the following day while Moyo and Tshuma, who had been on the run, were arrested two months later. They were granted bail last month. — @mashnets