Tonderai Ndiraya Mukudzei Chingwere and Tadious Manyepo NGEZI PLATINUM STARS captain Liberty Chakoroma has said it will be difficult for any team in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League to stop the high-riding Mhondoro side. The log leaders will host Harare City at Baobab this afternoon. “We are working hard as a team, pushing each other to go an extra mile and if anyone makes a mistake we rectify it as a team. Those who are saying we will win the title this year are not wrong. “It is the first half of the season I know but we are going to maintain the way we are playing until the end of the season and it will be difficult for anyone to stop us,” said Chakoroma. Winger Michael Charamba who has been one of the miners’ best players this season and thanked God and attributed their success and the leadership of coach Tonderai Ndiraya. “First of all I want to thank God for the way we have been playing this season and we hope to keep up that momentum. The coach has helped us to play at the top of our game and we just want to thank him for his advice and encouragement that has helped to be unbeaten at this stage of the season,” said Charamba. Ndiraya said it will be a tough assignment. “We are marching on, we have a next challenge, which is Harare City, it is quite a tough match but I hope that we will be up to the task,” said Ndiraya. Harare City coach Mark Harrison believes the game will be their biggest test. “We have played a host of big teams and fared quite. And on Saturday (today) we have a date against Ngezi Platinum Stars, a team which is yet to lose a Premiership match this season.  They are simply the best team in the league so far this season and they are on top of the standings not by coincidence. “They have a good coach in Tonderai Ndiraya and a lot of good players within their ranks. But we are also a team, playing good football just like them. The game will be a big test for my charges. But then it is by passing these kind of tests that you start counting yourselves among the best performers. “The game will be massive test for my boys. But we are ready for them. We will prevail if we play our normal football. But I acknowledge that Baobab is not an easy hunting ground for three-point seekers,” said Harrison.